
116. Section Introduction

So welcome to this section
in which we discuss mostly AWS Services related to security,
but also a few others.
So we'll have lectures usually from other courses
that I created before for concepts
that I think may be relevant to the exam.
But these questions remain at a very high level.
And if the lecture is mentioning a service
that hasn't been mentioned in the course, don't worry,
it's because these lectures have been cherry picked
to be included in this course.
So what should you know then out of this section?
Well, it's only important
for you to understand the service definition
and the essence of what the service does.
The exam questions that will be asking concepts
about these services will be very simple
and definitely not in-depth.
So I included all need to know
to get a good review of these services
and I will hope you will like
these lectures and benefits from them.

---

117. IAM Introduction: Users, Groups, Policies

Welcome to the first deep dive
on an iterator service.
The first one is called IAM.
So IAM stands for identity and access management.
It is a global service because in IAM,
we are going to create our users and assign them to group.
So we've already used IAM without knowing,
when we created an account, we created a root accounts,
and has been created by default.
This is the root user of our accounts.
And the only things you should use it for is
to set up your account as we'll do it right now.
But then you shouldn't use that account anymore,
or even share it.
What you should be doing instead, is create users.
So you will create users in IAM,
and one user represents one person within your organization.
And the users can be grouped together if it makes sense.
So let's take an example we have an organization
with six people.
You have Alice, Bob, Charles, David, Edward
and Fred so all these people are in your organization.
Now Alice, Bob, and Charles they work together.
They're all developers.
So we're going to create a group called
the group developers who regrouping Alice,
Bob and Charles.
And it turns out that David and Edward also work together.
So we're going to create an operations group.
Now we have two groups within IAM.
Now groups can only contain users, not other groups.
So this is something very important to understand.
Groups only contain users.
Now, some users don't have to belong to a group.
For example, Fred right here is alone,
he does not correspond to any group.
That is not best practice.
But it is something you can do in AWS.
And also, a user can belong to multiple groups.
That means that for example, if you know that Charles
and David worked together,
and they're part of your audit team,
you can create a third group with Charles and David.
And as you can see, now, in this example,
Charles and David are part of two different groups.
So this is the possible configurations for IAM.
So why do we create users and why do we create groups?
Well, because we want to allow them to use our AWS accounts
and to allow them to do so,
we have to give them permissions.
So users or groups can be assigned
what's called a JSON document.
I'll show you right now what it means called a policy,
an IAM policy.
So it looks just like this.
So you don't have to be a programmer.
This is not programming.
This is just describing in, I think plain English,
what a user is allowed to do or what a group
and all the users within that group are allowed to do.
So in this example, we can see that we allow people
to use the EC2 to service and do describe on it,
to use the elastic load balancing service
and to describe on it and to use CloudWatch.
Now we'll see what EC2 elastic load balancing
and CloudWatch mean, but through this JSON document
that looks just like this.
We are allowing our users to use some services in AWS.
So these policies will help us define permissions
of our users.
And so in AWS, you don't allow everyone to do everything
that would be catastrophic,
because a new user could basically launch so many services
and they will cost you a lot of money
or would be valid for security.
So in AWS, you apply a principle called
the least privilege principle.
So you don't give more permissions than a user needs.
Okay, so if a user just needs access to three services,
just create a permission for that user.
So now we have seen an overview IAM.


---
118. IAM Users & Groups - Hands On

So let's go ahead
and practice using the IAM service to create users in AWS.
So in the search bar,
I just type IAM and I go into the IAM console.
So upon arriving on the IAM Dashboard,
we have some security recommendations
that we can for now not care about.
And what I want to draw your attention to
is that on the left hand side, we go to users.
So this is where we're creating to create users for IAM,
but first, let's notice something.
If you go to the top right corner and click on Global,
you can see that the region selection is not active.
That means that IAM as an entire service is a global service
and therefore there is no region to be selected.
When you create a user in IAM,
it will be available everywhere,
but some other consoles we'll see in this course
will be region-specific.
So just something to notice.
Okay, so now we have users, and why do we create users?
Well, we create users,
because right now, we are using what's called the root user.
So if you click on this,
you see there's just the account ID available to you.
So when you have it,
that means you're using the root account
and it's not best practice to use the root account.
So therefore, we want to create users such as admin users
that will allow us to use our accounts more safely.
So for this, let's go ahead and create a user,
and I will provide a username, for example, Stephane.
So of course I want to provide myself access
to the management console,
so I'm going to do this,
and we have the option to use identity center,
which is recommended,
or to create an IAM user.
I will choose the second option because it is more simple,
and from an exam perspective,
this is the one you need to know about.
But don't worry,
this does not affect how your course is going to go.
Okay, so we create an IAM user,
and now we have to set the password.
So if this was a user that was not me,
I would leave it as auto-generated password,
and I would leave this
so that the user must change this password
at the next sign-in,
but because it is me,
I'm just going to enter a custom password
and I'm going to untick this
because I don't need to change my password
at the next login.
So let's click on next.
Next, we have to add permissions to this user,
so we can add it directly or we can get started with groups.
So let's create a group, and we're going to create a group.
The group name is going to be admin
and the policy name is going to be administrator access.
So now that this is done,
we can add the user into the admin group.
So let's click on next,
and we can review everything right now.
So we have the username, the permissions on the group,
and we have tags, and tags are everywhere in AWS.
They're optional, but they allow you to give metadata
to many of your resources.
For example, I could say
that the department of Stephane is engineering.
This is not something I'm going to do everywhere
on the course,
but I want show you once how
you can add tags to resources in AWS.
Okay, so now the user is created successfully.
So now we can email signing instructions or download
CSV files and then we can log in with this user.
But first, let's return to the user list
and have a look at everything.
So here is my user lists, here is me
and we also have groups.
So if I go to the left hand side, user groups,
we have admins.
So let's observe admins.
So admins has one user in it named Stephane.
And if you look at permissions of admins
you see that there is administrator access attached
to the admin group.
Now if I go to my user, Stephane in here,
we can look at permission policies
and see it also has administrative access
but this one has not been attached directly.
It has been attached via the group admin.
So that means that Stephane inherited any permissions
of the group admin it is in.
And this is why we put users in groups.
It is a bit more simple to manage permissions this way.
So now let's go back to our dashboard
and we want to sign in with our user, Stephane.
So first what we can do is look at our AWS accounts
and it has an account ID and a Sign-in URL.
Now you can customize this Sign-in URL very easily
by creating what's called an account alias.
So it could be aws-stephane-v3 and then Create alias
so whatever alias until someone hasn't created it,
so it has to be unique.
For example, v5 is available.
So now using this alias can simplify my signing URL.
Now to sign in using my Stephane accounts
we could use the same browser
or we could create a new browser window in private mode.
And the benefit of doing this is
that we can have two windows side by side using AWS.
So if you don't do this, that's fine, but if you log
in using the Stephane account on the right hand side window
then you will be disconnected on the left hand side,
this is the only difference.
So to use two accounts at the same time,
the route on the left and my account on the right
what I'm doing as a trick is that I'm using a private window
on my web browser, and Chrome has this feature,
Firefox as this feature, Safari as this feature, and so on.
So by pasting the signing URL, as you can see,
I get the sign in and as an IAM user
and to get to this page, we can go back to one.
And as you can see, when you do a sign in on AWS,
you have the root user sign in or the IAM user sign in.
So to get back to this, we go to IAM user.
We enter either the account ID or the account alias
that I can copy in here, and then we are taken to this page.
So the IAM user name is going to be Stephane
and the password is going to be whatever you have set
from before, then you sign in.
So now the cool thing is that if I look
at the top right hand side, IAM logged in using my IAM user.
So it says the account ID and the IAM user.
But if I look on the top right hand side of here
it just says the account id
which shows me it's the root accounts.
So here we are, we have the root accounts logged
in on the left hand side through a normal window
and we have the IAM user logged in on the right hand side
through a private window.
Please make sure not to lose your root account
logins and your admin login.
Otherwise, you will be in deep trouble with your
account and you'll have to contact AWS for support.
And currently I cannot help you with this.
Now from a course perspective,
I recommend you use your IAM user and not your root user
but this is just a normal recommendation.
Sometimes you'll see me using root
sometimes I'm using IAM user.
But when you have to use roots or when you have
to use an IAM user, I will let you know in the course.
Don't worry about that.
Now for the rest of this section,

---

119. AWS Console Simultaneous Sign-in

So let me show you something cool now
called the multi-session support.
So you click on it to turn it on,
and the idea now is that now I can have in this browser
a specific role or account
and then I can add a session,
and sign into any of your identities using the same browser.
So here I'm going to click on it
and I'm going to add a session.
And now you can login again using any account ID or route.
And then you go to go.
So let's go and let me just signing into one of my accounts.
And after being signed in, as you can see here,
I have one specific account ID
and here I have a different account ID.
And the cool thing is that, for example,
let's say I'm going to the EC2 console here,
and then I'm going to go into volumes
and then I'm going to, for example,
create an EBS volume of one gigabyte
just to do something very quickly.
So let's create this volume.
Okay, as you can see, my volume has been created,
so it's just showing you
how to do something very quickly on this window.
You don't have to know about EBS and so on.
But now if I go into EBS on this other browser,
so I go under EC2,
and then I go under EBS.
As you can see here, I don't see any volumes,
because I'm using a different account window,
and this other one is using the other account window.
So that means I can have two accounts
under the same browser.
This was not possible before, which is very helpful,
and something you should know about
if you want to use AWS at scale.
So a nice welcome edition.
You don't need to go ahead and create an EBS volume.
I just want to show you the fact
that you could have two different accounts
on two different browser windows.
And for me, that's been using AWS for over 10 years,
this is a little revolution.
All right, so that's it, you can go back to the course.

---

120. IAM Policies

Okay, so now let's discuss, IAM policies in depth.
So let's imagine we have a group of developers,
Alice, Bob and Charles, and we,
attach a policy at the group level.
In that case, the policy will get applied
to every single member of the group
so both Alice, Bob, and Charles
they will all get access and inherit this policy.
Now, if you have a second group with operations
with a different policy,
David and Edward will have a different policy
than the group of developers.
If Fred is a user,
it has the possibility not to belong to a group.
And we have the possibility to create what's called
an inline policy which has a policy
that's only attached to a user.
So that user could or could not belong to a group
you can have inline policies for whatever user you want.
And finally, if Charles and David both belong
to the audit team and you attach a policy to the audit team
as well, Charles and David will also inherit
that policy from the audit team.
So in this case, Charles has a policy from developers
and a policy from audit team.
And David has a policy from audit team
and a policy from the operations team.
That should make a lot of sense
when we get into the hands-on.
Now, in terms of the policy structure,
you just need to know at a high level how it works,
as well as how it is named.
So this is something you will see quite a lot in AWS,
so get familiar with this structure
this is adjacent documents.
And so an IAM policy structure, consists of a
version number, so usually it's 2012-10-17,
this is the policy language version.
And ID which is how to identify that policy,
this is optional.
And then more statements,
and statements can be one or multiple ones,
and a statement has some very important parts.
So the Sid is a statement ID, which is an identifier
for the statement, which is optional as well,
so on the right hand side is the number one.
The effect of the policy itself, so it is whether or not
the statement allows or denies access to certain API,
so in the right hand side, this says allow,
but you can see deny as well.
The principle consists of which accounts, user or role
which, to which this policy will be applied to.
So in this example, it's applied to the root accounts
of your AWS accounts.
Action is the list of API calls that will be
either denied or allowed based on the effect.
And the resource is a list of resources,
to which the actions will be applied to.
So in this example, it is a bucket,
but it could be many different things.
And finally in, not represented here
but there's a condition to which when
this statement should be applied or not,
and this is not representative here because it is optional.
So going into the exam, you need to make sure
that you really understand the effect, the principle,
the action and resource, but don't worry,
you will see those along the way in the course
so you should be confident with them
by the end of the course.

---

121. IAM Policies - Hands On


So now let's have a look
at IAM policies in depth.
So first of all, let's go into users.
And as you can see, the user Stephane
is part of the admin group,
and therefore, has administrator access permissions to AWS.
That means that if I use my user Stephane
to go into the IAM console, so now I'm using my user,
and then I go to the left-hand side and click on users,
as you can see, I can see my user Stephane,
which is right here.
So my user Stephane has permission to do anything
because it's an administrator.
But what I'm going to do is that I'm going to the groups
of admins and then I'm going to remove my user Stephane
from that group.
So by removing the user, which I've done right now,
then Stephane loses its permissions on the right-hand side.
How do we make sure of this?
Well, let's refresh this page.
And as you can see, now I see zero users
and I get an access denied and it said
that I don't have the permission to do iamListUsers.
And so therefore, because I removed my Stephane user
from the admin group, then I've lost permissions to look
at users on the right-hand side.
So let's try to fix this.
So let's go into IAM
and we're gonna go under users, find Stephane in here.
And right now, as you can see,
Stephane has zero permission policies
but let's add permissions.
So we can add permissions directly
or create an inline policy.
So let's add permissions, and this is going to be easier.
And so again, we could add the user back to a group.
That's not what we want.
Or we could attach policies directly to my user.
And so the policy I'm going to attach is going
to be IAMReadOnlyAccess.
So this will allow my user Stephane
to read anything on IAM, which is what we want.
So let's add this permission
and now this policy has been added.
So back in here, let's refresh this page.
And as you can see now, I can finally do my API call again
and look at the Stephane user in my users category.
So I can view users, I can view user groups, such as admin
but can I create a group?
Let's try to create the developer group
and then create this group.
And as you can see, I cannot create it
because I'm not allowed to actually create a group.
I'm only given the read-only access on IAM.
And so therefore, because I have read-only access,
I cannot create groups.
So this shows you that you can only permission users
for what they're supposed to do.
And of course, if I wanted to give access to create groups
on the right-hand side,
I will need to attach a bigger permission sets,
such as the IAM full access.
So next, let's do something.
So next, I'm going to go into the left-hand side
under user groups, and I'm going to create a group.
So this group is going to be called developers.
And then I'm going to add the user Stephane in this group
and I'm going to attach whatever policy I can find,
for example, AlexaForBusiness
but it doesn't really matter.
Just attach the first policy you can
and let's create this group.
Okay, so this has been added.
And finally, let's go into the admin group.
And again, we're going to add users
and re-add Stephane into this group.
So now if we go back to the Stephane user, so let's go
into IAM and look at the users and look at Stephane,
I'm going to shut down this message on right-hand side.
So if we look at Stephane as the user, as we can see,
we have three permission policies attached to my user.
We have the administrator access that has been inherited
from the group admin.
We have this AlexaForBusiness managed policy
that has been attached via the group developers.
And finally, IAMReadOnlyAccess
that has been attached directly.
And so as you can see,
I inherited different permissions based
on how it's been attached.
So now let's look at policies in detail.
So on the left-hand side, let's look at policies.
And first, let's have a look
at this AdministratorAccess policy.
So if we look at it, it's the permission
that gave us administrator access to everything.
And if you look at the permissions defined
in this policy as a summary, as you can see,
this allows all the services in AWS.
And this number can change over time.
It doesn't matter.
The course will be up to date.
So all these services, for example, App Mesh
or Alexa for Business or Amplify, they all have full access.
So how is this permission defined?
Well, if you click on JSON,
this is the JSON form of this policy, and we can see
that here we have allow Action, star and resource, star.
So star in AWS means anything.
So it means we allow any action on any resource.
And of course, allowing any action
on any resource is exactly the same thing
as giving administrator access to someone.
So this is how it's been defined.
If we have a look at another policy, for example,
the IAMReadOnlyAccess that we saw from before.
So if we look at it, we see
that IAM is authorized with Full: List and Limited: Read.
And if I click on it, you can actually have a look
at all the API calls that has been allowed
as part of this policy, which is very handy.
But if we look at how this has been actually defined,
let's click on JSON.
And here we have the JSON document that shows
how this has been defined.
So the effect is allow, and then we list out the API calls
that are being allowed.
So we have this one, this one, and then we have Get*.
So when you have Get*, it says that anything that starts
with Get and then has something after is authorized.
For example, get users or get groups.
Same for list.
So we have a List*.
So list users or list groups.
So by using a star,
we encompass and group many API calls together.
So all this is allowed on Resource*.
And so therefore, that summarizes
what the read-only IAM access policy is made of.
So this is very handy.
You can also create your own policy.
So let's create a policy
and we have a visual editor or a JSON editor.
So if you have JSON, you can just very simply edit this
and create your JSON document with this builder,
which is very handy.
Or you can use the visual editor.
And for example, let's say IAM,
we wanna create stuff for IAM.
And what action do we wanna authorize?
Well, we want to authorize ListUsers.
So we're going to take this and GetUser.
So just two API calls.
And as we can see, we have selected one out of 38 in list
and one out of 32 in read.
And then what do we want to authorize this on?
So on all resources or only specific resources?
So this is a very simple one
but as you can see, this builder is very handy.
And when you click on next,
you can have a look and say MyIAMPermissions.
And then we create this policy.
And if we have a look at the policy we created,
we can have a look at the corresponding JSON
and see that indeed through the visual editor,
we allowed iam:ListUsers and iam:getUser on Resource*.
And then this policy, we can attach to groups
or to users and so on.
So this is how you manage permissions in AWS.
So now to just wrap up this hands-on,
let's go to user groups
and we're going to delete the developers group
because we don't need it.
And then I'm going to go into my Stephane user
and I'm going to just remove this IAMReadOnlyAccess
that had attached directly.
So now Stephane only belongs to the group admin
and it has administrator access.
So of course, if I go back
to my IAM console in here and I just look at users,
as you can see, yes, everything is showing fine.
So it is working correctly.

---

122. IAM Roles

So we have to talk about
the last component of IAM,
which is called IAM Roles.
So some AWS services that we'll be launching
throughout this course will need to perform actions
on our behalf, on our account, okay?
And for this to do these actions,
they're just like users,
they will need some kind of permissions.
So we need to assign permissions to AWS services
and to do so,
we're going to create what's called an IAM Role.
So these IAM role will be just like a user,
but they are intended to be used not by physical people,
but instead they will be used by AWS services.
So what does that mean?
It's a bit confusing.
So for example,
we are going to create throughout this course,
an EC2 Instance.
An EC2 Instance is just like a virtual server,
and we'll see this in the next section.
But so this EC2 Instance may want to
perform some actions on AWS and to do so,
we need to give permissions to our EC2 Instance.
To do so, we're going to create an IAM Role and together
they're going to make one entity.
And together, once the EC2 Instance is trying
to access some information from AWS,
then it will use the IAM Role.
And if the permission assigned to the IAM Role is correct,
then we're going to get access to the call
we're trying to make.
So some common roles include
what I just showed you, EC2 Instance roles,
but also other things that perform actions against AWS
we'll see in this course.
For example, Lambda Function Roles or CloudFormation.
So I know this is a high level of review.
In the next lecture we'll be creating a role,
but we won't be using it yet until the next section,
but let's go ahead and create a role.

---

123. IAM Roles - Hands On

So let's practice using roles.
So on the left hand side, you click on roles,
and you can see that some roles may have already
been created for your accounts.
Could be two, could be more. It doesn't matter.
But what we're going to do is that we're going to
create our own role in here.
So a role is a way to give AWS entities permissions
to do stuff on AWS.
As you can see, you have different kind of roles.
You can create actually five of them right now.
But the one that you need to know about for this hands-on
and for the exam is going to be a role for an AWS service.
So let's choose this one, and then we need to choose
for which service we want this role to apply to.
So as you can see, if you click on it,
you have commonly used services, such as EC2 and Lambda,
or a role for pretty much every service on AWS.
So it's a very common thing to know in AWS,
and that's why we learn about it.
So we are going to create a role for an EC2 instance
when we get to the EC2 section.
And so we choose EC2, and the use case is just EC2.
We disregard any of these.
So click on next, and now that we create a role
for an EC2 instance, we need to attach a policy.
So I'm going to attach the IAM read only access
to allow my EC2 instance to read whatever is in IAM.
Let's click on next.
Next do meet to enter a demo, a role name,
so DemoRoleForEC2 is going to be my role name,
and then we select the trusted entities.
So this is saying, hey, this role can be assumed
by the EC2 service, and this is what defines it
as a role for Amazon EC2.
We are verifying the permissions,
yes, it has IAM read only access,
and we create this role.
So now my role is created.
As you can see, it appears in my role lists.
And we can verify that the permissions
are correct for this role.
Now, we cannot use this role just yet
because we need to get to the EC2 section,
but we will use it when we get to it.
In the meantime, you've seen how to create a role
for Amazon EC2 and how to attach correct permissions to it.

---

124. Amazon S3

Welcome to this section on Amazon S3.
So this section is very important
because Amazon S3 is one of the main building blocks of AWS.
And the way it's advertised
is that it's infinitely scaling storage.
So as a matter of fact,
a lot of the web relies on Amazon S3.
For example, many websites use Amazon S3 as a backbone,
and many AWS services will also use Amazon S3
for integrations as well.
So in this section,
we'll have a step-by-step approach to Amazon S3
to learn the main features.
So there are so many use cases for Amazon S3
because at its core, it is storage.
So Amazon S3 is used for backup and storage.
It could be for your files,
it could be for your disk and so on.
For disaster recovery purposes,
for example, you'll move your data to another region.
In case a region goes down,
then your data is backed up somewhere else.
It's for archival purposes.
So you can archive files in Amazon S3
and retrieve it at a later stage for much, much cheaper.
For hybrid cloud storage,
so in case you have storage on premises,
but you won't expand it into the cloud,
you can use Amazon S3 for this.
To host applications, to host media such as video files,
images, and so on,
to have a data lake to store a lot of data
and to perform big data analytics,
for delivering software updates
for hosting static websites, and so on.
And two use cases is that the NASDAQ
stores seven years of data into the S3 Glacier service,
which is like the archival service of Amazon S3.
And Sysco runs analytics
on its data and gains business insights from Amazon S3.
So now, let's talk about the bucket.
So Amazon S3 allows people to store objects
or files into buckets.
They're directories within the cloud.
And the buckets are defined at the region level.
So you say you create a buckets for a specific AWS region.
Even though S3 has a global interface
in which you'll be able to see all the buckets
from all the regions,
the buckets themselves are assigned to a specific region.
Now, for the naming, there is something that you should know
that is quite recent and new.
So it used to be that Amazon S3
needed to have buckets with a globally unique name.
That means that the name for your S3 bucket belong to you
and no one else could use it across the world,
across all the regions, across all the accounts.
But now, there is a new feature
to have an account regional namespace,
and it allows you to reuse the same bucket name
across the regions for all your accounts and so on,
even though someone else may have named
the bucket the same way because AWS will add a suffix
to your bucket name,
making sure that it's going to be unique anyway.
So naming constraints, you have no uppercase,
no underscore, not an IP.
It must start with a lowercase number or letter,
it must not start with a prefix XN,
and it must not end with a suffix minus S3 alias.
So overall, you're completely fine
if you use letters and numbers and you keep it simple.
And before there was a constraint
around the global unique name,
but now with the account original namespace,
you can pretty much use whatever you want
for your bucket name in AWS, which is super nice.
Okay, so now let's talk about objects.
So these objects, they're files
and they have what's called a key.
And an Amazon S3 object key is the full path of your file.
So if you look at my bucket,
this is the top level directory.
Then the key of my file, a TXT, is my_file.txt.
But in case you want to nest it in what we call folders,
then the key is going to be the full path.
So my_folderI/another_folder
/my_file.txt.
Therefore, the key is composed of a prefix,
and then an object name.
So we can, for example,
decompose the path from before into the prefix,
which is my_folderI and another_folder,
and the object name, which is my_file.txt.
So Amazon S3 does not have a concept
of directories per se,
although when you look in the console,
the UI, you will think otherwise
and you will actually create directories.
But anything and everything in Amazon S3 is actually a key.
And keys are just very, very long names
that contain slashes and keys are made of a prefix
and an object name.
Okay, so the objects then, what are they?
Well, the values are the content of the body.
So you can upload a file,
you can upload whatever you want into Amazon S3.
So the max object size is 50 terabytes.
And if you upload a file that is very big,
and if that file is greater than five gigabytes,
so a big file, okay, then you must use the multi-part upload
to upload that file into several parts.
So if you have a file of five terabytes,
then you must upload at least 1,000 parts of five gigabytes.
Now, the objects can also have metadata,
their list of key and value pairs,
and that could be set by the system
or set by the user to indicate some elements about the file,
some metadata.
Their tags, for example,
their Unicode key and value pairs up to 10,
they're very useful for security and lifecycles,
and sometimes the object will have a version ID
if you have enabled versioning.
So that's it for an introduction to Amazon S3.
I'm sure you're curious about how that works.

---

125. Amazon S3 - Hands On


So here I am in Amazon S3,
and we're going to go ahead and create a bucket.
So as you can see,
this bucket is created in a specific region.
For example, Europe (Ireland) eu-west-1.
You can change the region selector
on the top right if you wanted to.
So next we have the bucket type.
So we have General purpose or Directory.
Directory is for low-latency use cases.
We're not going to use it.
General purpose is what we're going to use.
This is the most common
and recommended type of bucket for most access patterns.
Now here comes the namespace.
So it used to be only Global,
but now we have Global and Account Regional namespace.
So this is about naming your bucket.
So if you use the Global namespace
and you name your bucket bucket test for example,
you're going to have a problem.
So let's name it test,
and then scroll down and then create this bucket.
As you can see, a bucket with the same name already exists.
So someone created a bucket named test.
And so you need to make sure
that the bucket name here is going to be globally unique.
So for me, it would be for example, stephane-demo-s3-v6.
But as you can see, it already exists.
So I need to go to v7 and so on.
So someone already took it and it's not even me.
So how do we do then to find a bucket that's unique
while we can keep on increasing the versions
until one one will work,
or we can use now
what's called the Account Regional namespace,
and the idea is that you can do whatever you want.
You can name it test, you can name it demo,
you can name it whatever you want.
And it turns out
that there will be an Account Regional namepace suffix
that is added and so your full bucket name is going
to be this, but you have the guarantee that this is going
to be available no matter what
because this is your account number
and this is the region you're in.
And so this is the recommended way going forward
because you create a bucket named demo
and you can use this demo name across all your regions
and all your accounts if you wanted to.
But for the purpose of this demo,
I'm going to name my bucket stephane-demo-s3-v12,
which I know is available.
All right, so the bucket name is now available.
Okay, so next for Object Ownership,
right now you have ACL disabled, this is recommended.
This is a security setting. Don't worry about it.
We'll leave it as a default.
Now for blocking public access to this bucket,
we again, we'll leave this enabled.
So we'll block all public access
and we want to have maximum security in our buckets
so only us can upload files to it.
Next for Bucket Versioning,
so we want to disable Bucket Versioning right now
and we'll see later on how to enable it.
No tags are needed.
And for Default encryption,
I'm going to use server-side encryption
with Amazon S3 managed key.
So all my objects are going to be encrypted,
and then we'll choose the first option.
We'll talk about encryption later on.
And Bucket Key, I will enable it.
So we'll leave, as you can see, all the settings as default.
The only thing we have set really is the bucket name.
So I'll go ahead and create my bucket.
And now it has been successfully created.
And you will see here in this UI all your buckets.
If you have directory enabled,
you will see also directory buckets.
Right now I have none,
but your general purpose buckets are here.
Right now you should see one bucket
that you've just created this course.
For me, I have 33
because I've been using my account quite a lot.
And this will deploy buckets for all AWS regions,
not just the one you're in right now, but all regions.
As you can see, I have Ireland, London,
I scroll down and get us-east-1, Frankfurt and so on.
So all your buckets are going to be displayed here
and you can do a little search.
For example, stephane-demo, and here is my bucket.
So I'm going to click on it and have a look at it inside.
And now in my bucket,
I would like to start uploading objects
because currently, you have zero objects.
So let's click on Upload and then we can add files.
And navigate into your code, go into the s3 folder,
and then you will find a coffee.jpg file.
So choose this coffee.jpg file.
As you can see, it's an image JPEG,
it has 100 kilobytes in size,
and then the destination is s3://stephane-demo,
which is my bucket.
Okay, so let's upload this file.
We're done, so I can close this on the right-hand side.
And now back into my S3 bucket,
I can see the coffee.jpg file is under my Objects.
So what I can do is now click on it
and have more details around that file.
So now that we are in the Object page,
we can have a look at a bunch of overviews.
So a bunch of properties where it's been uploaded,
the size, the type, and there is an object URL here,
we'll be playing it in a moment.
So how do we do this?
So now we want to open this object
and see if we can open it.
We can view it because we have uploaded it
onto our Amazon S3 bucket.
Therefore, I'm going to click on Open.
And if I do click on Open, as you can see,
I can see my coffee.jpg file.
So this is the one I have uploaded
and it is on the internet.
Awesome, right?
But if I go back to my overview
and click on this object URL over here,
so I copy it, I paste it, and I enter it,
as you can see, I get an AccessDenied.
And this AccessDenied tells me
that I cannot access my object using
what's called the public URL.
So as you can see here, this public URL is not working,
but this URL is working.
So what's the difference?
Well, this URL right here, if you have a look at it,
the beginning is exactly the same,
but then the rest is a very,
very complicated and long URL
because it's called an S3 pre-signed URL, why?
Well, because this URL contains actually a signature
that verifies that I am the one making the request,
and therefore it has my credentials in it.
And so because my credentials are encoded in this URL,
then Amazon S3 says, "Well,
Stephane is allowed to view his own object,
therefore I will display it."
So this public URL does not work,
but this pre-signed URL with my own credentials works
and obviously this URL is only for me.
So we'll see how to make that object public later on
so that the public URL will function as well.
So let's go back into our bucket, the stephane-demo-s3,
and I have one object, but I can create a folder,
and this folder name may be called images.
So we scroll down and create this folder.
So now I have the images folder in my bucket.
I can click on it and within it, I can upload again a file,
and this time I will upload the beach.jpg file
into, as you can see,
the destination is my images folder within my S3 bucket.
So let's upload this, close this.
As you can see now we have the beach.jpg object
within the images folder.
And if I go one level up, we can see the folder here.
So this looks just like, you know,
the cloud storage service you used to know,
such as Google Drive or Dropbox or whatever you want.
Here, we have something very similar in terms
of the user experience on Amazon S3.
So of course, I can go to images
and I can delete this folder entirely.
So this will delete everything within the folder.
And to delete things,
I just type permanently delete into the text input,
delete my object, and I'm good to go.
So that's it for this lecture.
We've seen how we can upload objects into Amazon S3,
we've seen how we can open them in two different ways,
creating folders, deleting folders, and so on.

---

126. Amazon S3 - Storage Classes

From <https://jpmc.udemy.com/course/aws-ai-practitioner-certified/learn/lecture/45375491#content> 

Transcript
Okay, so let's discuss
different storage classes we have for Amazon S three.
The first one is Amazon S three Standard-General Purpose.
Then we have Amazon S three-Infrequent Access.
Then we have Amazon S three One Zone-Infrequent Access.
Then we have Glacier Instant Retrieval,
Glacier Flexible Retrieval, Glacier Deep Archive,
and then finally, the Amazon S three Intelligent Tiering.
So we'll learn about all these classes in depth
in this lecture, but you have to know them for the exam.
Then when you create an object in Amazon S three,
you can choose its class,
you can also modify its storage class manually,
or as we'll see as well,
you can use Amazon S3 Lifecycle configurations
to move objects automatically
between all these storage classes.
So first, before we go into the classes,
let's define the concept of durability and availability.
So durability represents how many times an object
is going to be lost by Amazon S three.
And so Amazon S three has a very high durability.
It's called 11 nines.
So nine nine point and then nine times nine percent.
And that means that on average,
if you store 10 million objects on Amazon S three,
you can expect to lose a single object
once every 10,000 years.
So it's quite durable.
And the durability is the same
for all storage classes in Amazon S three.
Availability represents how readily a service is.
And so this depends on the storage class.
For example, S three Standard has a 99.99% availability.
That means that about 53 minutes a year,
the service is not going to be available.
That means that you'll get some errors
when you deal with the service.
So you need to take that into account
when you develop your applications.
Okay.
So S3 standard has 99.99 availability.
It's going to be used for frequently accessed data.
This is the kind of storage you use by default,
and it has low latency and high throughputs.
It can sustain two concurrent facility failures
on the side of AWS and the use cases for it
is going to be big data analytics,
mobile and gaming application,
as well as content distribution.
Next, we have S three infrequent access.
So this is data that is going to be as the name indicates,
less frequently accessed,
but requires rapid access when needed.
It's going to be lower cost than S three Standard,
but you will have a cost on retrieval.
So the S three Standard-IA is 99.9% availability,
so a bit less available.
And the use case for it is going to be Disaster Recovery
and backups.
And Amazon S three One Zone-Infrequent access, One Zone-IA.
ESC has high durability, okay, within a single AZ only,
and the data is going to be lost
if the AZ is somewhat destroyed.
As well as durability, it's even lower.
So it's 99.5% availability.
And so the use cases of S three One Zone-IA
is to store secondary copy of backups
of maybe on-premises data, or data you can recreate.
Next we have the Glacier Storage Classes.
So Glacier is, as the name it gets very cold,
so it's low cost object storage
meant for archiving and backup.
And the pricing is that you're going to pay for the storage
plus pay for a retrieval cost.
In your three classes of storage within Glacier,
you have the Amazon S three Glacier Instant Retrieval.
And this gives you milliseconds retrieval
which is great for example,
for data that's accessed once a quarter,
and the minimum store duration is 90 days.
So this is backup,
but you need to access it within milliseconds.
Then we have the Glacier Flexible Retrieval.
It used to be called Amazon S three Glacier
but then they renamed things as they added more tier.
So the Amazon Glacier Flexible Retrieval
has three flexibility.
So you have expedited where you get the data back
between one and five minutes.
You have standard to get the data back
between three to five hours, or bulk, which is free,
where you get data back between five to 12 hours.
And the minimum storage duration as well is 90 days.
So here, instance means you retrieve data instantly
and flexible means that you're willing
to wait up to for example, 12 hours to retrieve your data.
And then we have Glacier Deep Archive
which is meant for long term storage.
So we have two tiers of retrieval as well.
We have Standard of 12 hours and Bulk of 48 hours.
So you may be ready to wait a lot of time
to retrieve data,
but it's going to give you the lowest cost,
and as well, the minimum storage duration is 180 days.
So as you know, that's a lot of storage classes
and there's one last called S three Intelligent- Tiering,
which is going to allow you to move objects
between excess tiers based on usage patterns.
And for this, you're going to incur a small
monthly monitoring fee, and auto tiering fee.
And there are no retrieval charges
in S three Intelligent- Tiering.
So there is the frequent access tier that's automatic
the default tier.
Then we have the Infrequent Access tier
for objects not accessed for example, for 30 days.
Then you have the Archive Instant Access tier,
automatic as well for objects not accessed over 90 days.
And then the Archive Access tier that's optional.
And you can configure it from 90 days to 700 plus days.
And then you have the Deep Archive Access tier
also optional, that you can configure for objects
that haven't been accessed between 180 days
to 700 plus days.
Okay.
So S three Intelligent-Tiering is really
to allow you to just sit back and relax
while S three moves objects for you.
So if you compare all the storage classes
you don't need to remember these numbers,
but it's just for you to make sense of what they are.
So you get durability of 11 nine's everywhere.
Then as availability goes down, the less zones you have,
of course.
It just shows you like for example
the minimum storage duration chart and so on.
So take some time to look at this diagram on your own.
You should understand it,
but you should not remember it for sure.
So if we look at some pricing, for example
in the us-east-one,
so this is the kind of pricing you would have
for all the storage classes.
And again, you're not supposed to remember everything.
But it's good for you to have a look at it
on your own time, just to make sure you understand.
Because if you understand what the classes name are,
then you should be able to make sense of these classes.
Okay?
So that's it for the lecture.

---

127. Amazon S3 - Storage Classes - Hands On

So let's create a new bucket industry
and call it "s3-storage-classes-demos-2022."
Okay. Then I create into any kinda region,
and I will go ahead and just create this bucket.
So back in my bucket, I can go ahead
and upload a object, and click on add files.
I will choose my coffee.JPEG.
And let's have a look at the options.
So we can look at the properties
of that object,
and under storage class, I get the wide range
of storage class that are for AWS objects.
So we have S3 standard, okay,
and we get the design four column.
How many AZ's we have,
as well as some other (indistinct)
the minimum storage duration,
minimum billable object size,
and monitoring and auto-tiering fees.
So let's have a look at all of them.
So we have standard, which is the basic ones by default.
Then we get intelligent tiering,
in case we don't know our data patterns,
and therefore we want AWS
to perform the data tiering for us.
Standard-IA, if we want data to be infrequently accessed,
but still with low latency.
One-Zone-IA,
which is that you can recreate this data,
and it's going to be stored in one AZ only.
And therefore you can
run the risk of losing the object,
if the AZ is destroyed.
Then we have three glacier levels.
So we have Glacier Instant Retrieval,
Glacier Flexible Retrieval,
or a Glacier Deep Archive,
and it tells you exactly
what are the conditions in here.
And finally, Reduced Redundancy,
which is a deprecated type of storage tier,
and therefore I did not describe it in the course.
So what if we go with standard IA
for example, and create an object there.
So we're going there,
and then we're going to say upload.
Back in our bucket.
So now this object has the storage class, Standard-IA,
as it is shown here.
But what I can do is
that I can also change the storage class
if I wanted to.
So I can go into properties and scroll down,
and we can actually edit the storage class
to do something different.
So we can move it for example,
to One-Zone-IA,
in which case this object is going
to be stored in one zone only.
So let's save these changes.
And now my object has successfully been edited
and therefore the object class has changed.
So if we scroll down, now we are in One-Zone-IA.
And again, you could edit it,
and go, for example, for Glacier-Instant-Retrieval.
And now it's going to be archived,
or you can go for Intelligent-Tiering,
and it could be automatically set
to the right tier based on our patterns, and so on.
So you can see there's a lot of power using storage classes.
And finally,
I want to show you how we can automate moving these objects
between the different storage classes.
So let's go back
into our buckets, and there under management,
you can create lifecycle rules.
And you can create a rule,
and we'll call this one "DemoRule."
And then you're going to say,
"hey," apply to all objects in the buckets.
Yeah, sure.
And then we can say, okay
move current versions between storage classes.
And you're saying, hey, you go
to Standard-IA after, for example, 30 days.
And then you go to Intelligent-Tiering after 60 days.
And then you would go to Glacier-Flexible-Retrieval
after 180 days,
and so on.
So you get some transitions.
And in here you can review
all the transitions you have done.
So it is possible
for you to automate moving objects between tiers.
Okay. So that's it,
we've seen everything we need to know about storage classes.
I hope you liked it.

---

128. Amazon EC2


And on EC2,
in which we will create our first website on AWS.
So what is Amazon EC2?
Well, EC2 is one of the most popular of AWS offering.
It is definitely used everywhere.
And what is it?
Well, it stands for Elastic Compute Cloud,
and this is the way to do Infrastructure as a Service
on AWS.
So EC2 is not just one service.
It's composed of many things at a high level.
So you can rent virtual machines on EC2.
They're called EC2 instances.
You can store data on virtual drives or EBS volumes.
You can distribute load across machines,
elastic load balancer.
You can scale services using an auto-scaling group or ASG.
And all these things, do not worry,
we will see in depth during this course.
Knowing how to use EC2 in AWS
is fundamental to understand how the cloud works,
because as I said from before,
the cloud is to be able to rent those compute
whenever you need, on demand.
And EC2 is just that.
So EC2, what can we choose for our instances,
so our virtual servers that we rent from AWS?
So what operating system can we choose
for our EC2 instances?
Three options,
Linux, and is going to be the most popular,
Windows, or even macOS.
How much compute power and cores you want
on this virtual machine,
so how much CPU.
Then you need to choose how much random access memory,
or RAM, you want,
and how much storage space.
So, for example,
do you want storage that's going to be attached
through the network,
and we'll see about it with EBS or EFS.
Or do you want it to be hardware attached?
In this case, it will be an EC2 instance store.
And we have a whole section on storage,
so don't worry about it.
And then finally, the type of network you want attached
to your EC2 instance.
So do you want a network card that's going to be fast?
What kind of public IP do you want?
And finally, we need to handle the firewall rules
of our EC2 instance,
and that is the security group.
And I lied,
finally, finally, there's the bootstrap script
to configure the instance at first launch,
which is called the EC2 User Data.
So we have lots and lots of options,
and as you'll see in the hands-on,
even more options at other certification levels
that you need to know in EC2 instances.
But at a core of it, what you need to remember
is that you can choose pretty much
how you want your visual machine to be,
and you can rent it from AWS,
and that is the power of the cloud.
You can do this by just in the blink of an eye, really.
So it is possible to bootstrap our instances
using the EC2 User Data script.
So what does bootstrapping mean?
Well, bootstrapping means launching commands
when the machine starts.
So that script is only run once,
and when it first starts,
and then we'll never be run again.
So the EC2 User Data has a very specific purpose.
It is to automate boot tasks,
hence the name bootstrapping.
So what tasks do you wanna automate
usually when you boot your instance?
Well, you want to install updates, install software,
download common files from the internet,
or anything you can think of, really,
anything you can think of.
So it could be whatever you want,
but just know that the more you add
into your User Data Script,
the more your instance has to do at boot time.
Simple, right?
By the way, the EC2 User Data Scripts
runs with the root user,
so any command you have will have the sudo rights, okay?
So this was a short introduction to EC2.
Don't worry, it's gonna get very, very practical very soon.

---

129. Create an EC2 Instance with EC2 User Data to have a Website - Hands On

Welcome, so in this lecture,
we are going to launch our first E2 instance
running Amazon Linux.
So for this, we'll be launching our first EC2 instance
which is, well, a visual server,
and we'll use the console for this.
We'll get a high level approach
to all the various parameters you have
when launching an EC2 instance,
and you'll see there are many,
but we'll learn the most important ones.
And then we will launch a web server
directly on the EC2 instance.
Using a piece of code, we will pass to the EC2 instance.
That is called the user data.
Finally, we'll learn how to start,
stop, and terminate our instance.
So let's get started and launch our first EC2 instance.
For this, I'm gonna go into the EC2 console,
then I will click on instances
and then click on launch instances.
So in there, I'm able to launch my first EC2 instance,
and to do so, I need to add a name and tags.
So the name is going to be My First Instance
and that is the name tag,
and if you wanted to add additional tags
to tag your instance differently,
then you could click there,
but you don't need to click on this.
Using just name as My First Instance is good enough.
Next, you need to choose a base image
for your EC2 instance.
This is the operating system of your instance.
As you can see,
there's a full catalog that you can search from,
but we're going to use the ones from the quick start
that are very, very helpful.
And the one we'll be using is the Amazon Linux,
which is provided by AWS.
So in it, I will choose the Amazon Linux 2 AMI.
And as you can see, that one is free tier eligible,
so we'll just leave it as is.
So this gives me Amazon Linux 2,
and the architecture I will choose is 64 bit x86.
So everything left pretty much as the defaults.
And we'll see in this section,
and moreover in the other ones,
that you can create your own AMIs
and you can found them in here.
Okay, but currently, we're just going to use the ones
provided by AWS as quick start.
Next, we need to choose an instant type.
And so instant types are going to differ
based on the number of CPUs they have,
the amount of memory they have, and how much they cost.
As you can see right now, I have a T2 micro selected.
This one is free tier eligible,
so it will be free to launch one of them
during an entire month if we leave it running,
so this is what we'll be using.
But in here, you could scroll down
and look at other types of instances.
For example, T1 micro is also free tier eligible,
but that's older generation.
And as you can see, you have a bunch of instances
right here available to you.
Some of them are going to be free tier eligible,
some of them will not, and by default,
the one that's gonna be free tier eligible is a T2 micro,
so we'll be using that one a lot.
If you wanted to compare the instance types,
you will just click on that link,
and it shows you all the type of instances in here
as well as how much memory they have and so on.
So right now, we'll be using a T2 micro.
Okay.
Next, a key pair to log into your instance.
So this is necessary
if we use the SSH utility to access our instance,
and we will be using the SSH utility in this course,
therefore it is required for us to create a key pair.
So as we can see right now, there is no key pair,
and we could proceed without a key pair,
but for now we won't do this.
So let's go ahead and create a new key pair.
And the name is going to be EC2 Tutorial.
Then you need to choose a key pair type,
so we'll be using the RSA encrypted.
Okay, this is good.
And then the key pair formats.
So, if you have Mac or Linux or Windows 10,
then you can use the .pem format.
If you have Windows less than version 10,
for example, Windows 7 or Windows 8,
then you can do a little shortcut and directly use a PPK
which is going to be used for PuTTY,
and PuTTY is how you do SSH on Windows 7 and Windows 8.
So remember, anything else but Windows 7 and Windows 8,
choose .pem, else, use PPK.
Okay, that should be clear enough.
I'm going to create this key pair
and it is downloaded for me directly.
So now it is selected automatically here.
Next we have to go into network settings,
so for now, I will not touch anything.
My instance is going to get an public IP,
and then we need to connect to our instance.
And so for this, there is going to be
a security group attached to our instance
which is going to control the traffic
from and to our instance, and therefore we can add rules.
And the first security group created
will be called launch-wizard-1,
so created by the console directly,
and we can define multiple rules.
So the first rule we want to have
is to allow SSH traffic from anywhere.
So we leave it at this, and this will create a rule
in our security group to allow SSH traffic,
but we also want to allow HTTP traffic from the internet.
So I will take that box,
and this is because we're going to launch a web server
on our EC2 instance, so we need it as well.
As we're now going to use HTTPs for now,
we don't need to tick the second box.
Let's configure the storage
so then we can compare the storage and as we can see,
we have a eight gigabytes gp2 root volume
that we will leave it as is, okay,
because in the free tier, we can get up to 30 gigabytes
of EBS General Purpose SSD storage, so this is good.
And we only have one volume necessary.
If you go into advanced, you could configure them
and see a little bit more information, okay,
and the one important thing to note in here
is the delete on termination.
By default, it is enabled to yes,
I just did advanced to show you that one detail, okay?
That means that once we terminate our EC2 instance,
then that volume is also going to be deleted.
Okay, so we leave everything as is,
and we'll get back into the simple mode.
Okay.
Next for advanced details,
this is where it gets interesting.
So I will skip spot, I will skip IAM instance profile.
Don't worry, I will go over them
once we need to explore them.
I will skip all of that, so let's scroll down,
let's scroll down, let's scroll down
all the way to the bottom,
and at the bottom, there is user data.
User data is when we pass a script,
so some comments, to our EC2 instance
to execute on the first launch of our E2 instance
and only the first launch.
And therefore, on the first launch,
we want to be able to pass these commands right here.
So for this, you go into your code,
you go to the EC2 fundamentals,
and then the ec2-user-data.sh file,
you copy entirely this, so all of it,
and then you paste it here.
So you paste everything,
and that means that this script is going to be executed
when the instance is first started and only once, okay,
in the whole life cycle of the instance.
And what it's going to do
is that it's going to update a few things,
then install the HTPD web server on the machine,
and then write a file, an HTML file,
that will be a web server.
And so you don't need to know code
or know these commands, okay?
This is provided to you
to illustrate a few things on this lecture.
So finally, for summary, we want to start one instance,
this is great, and we can review everything we have here.
It all looks good.
We are very happy, and as you can see in the free tier,
we get a first year of 750 hours of t2 micro
which is reading it, running it for one month,
so that's every month.
And if you don't have a t2 micro in your region,
then it's going to be a t3 micro, okay?
And then also we get 30 gigabytes of EBS storage and so on.
So let's launch this instance
and the instance is going to be launched.
Let's go to view all instances, refresh,
and now my instance is in pending state.
So it's gonna take about 10, 15 seconds
for the instance to come up,
and this is the whole power of the Cloud.
Thanks to the Cloud, I am able to create an instance
or 100 of them very quickly in less than 10 seconds
without me owning any single server.
So that is extremely powerful,
and we just scratched the surface
of the power of the Cloud, obviously,
because the course is just getting started,
but you can get a feeling of the advances
and the speed we can have on the Cloud thanks to this.
So as you can see now, my instance is running,
and right now I wanna show you a few things, okay?
The first one is that the instance name is my first instance
and there's an instance ID
which is just a unique identifier for my instance.
There is a public IPv4 address,
this is what we're going to use to access our EC2 instance,
or there is a private IPv4 address
which is how to access that instance internally
on the AWS network, which is private.
The instance state is running,
and we get some information around host name, private DNS,
which instance that we have, so t2 micro,
as well as, if you scroll down, the AMI we're using,
which is Amazon Linux 2,
and the key pair we're using, which is EC2 Tutorial, okay?
So you can have a look at a few details in here.
You have more information, for example, on security.
We get some information on the security group
which was created called launch-wizard-1
with these in the rules.
So port 22 accessible from everywhere
and port 80 accessible from everywhere,
so you should have something similar.
Okay, if you don't, start over
because you probably missed a step.
And the add on rule allowing all communication outwards,
which allows the instance to access the internet.
For storage, we saw that, yes,
we created one volume of a gigabyte, so we're good to go.
So now let's have a look
at the web server running on my instance.
And for this, you go on public IPv4 address,
you copy this or you click on open address
and as you can see, it doesn't work.
Or if you click on it, copy,
and then paste it, you press enter, it's going to work.
So it depends on the web browsers you have and so on, okay,
but the reason it doesn't work here is that in the URL,
you need to make sure that you're using the HTTP protocol.
So HTTP colon slash slash and then the IP,
because if you use HTTPs, this is not going to work,
it's going to give you an infinite loading screen
which was happening right here.
So please make sure to use HTTP colon slash slash
and then the IP address and you're going to get this screen.
And in programming, when you do something
for the first time, usually say hello world.
So this web server is selling hello world from
and this IP right here, which is not the public IP.
This IP right here, 172-31-33-135
actually correspond to the private IPv4 address,
so this is something that I program myself.
So we use the public IP address to access it,
but we have the private IP address in here,
and we have the hello world.
And if you go too fast, you're going to get no messages.
So if you go too fast, just wait five minutes,
get back to it, refresh this page, and you'll see it.
Okay, so cool, we have a web server running, this is great.
Now let's explore a few options.
So we have an EC2 instance and it's running,
but if we don't need it, we can go to instance state
and then click on stop instance.
And in the Cloud, you can start and stop instances
just as you wish, and why would you stop an instance?
Well, the longer you leave it running,
the more you're going to pay, of course.
But if you decide to stop an instance,
then AWS will not bill you for it.
The instance state is kept
because you have a volume attached to it,
but at least you're not paying for it.
So we can see right now
while the instance is in a stopping state,
and if we try to refresh this page is going to, of course,
it's not going to work because, well,
you don't have the server running anymore.
So you can see it gets to some
like infinite loading experience, okay?
So my instance is now stopped,
and if I wanted to, actually, I could get rid of it.
And in the Cloud, it's very common to start instances
and then get rid of them very quickly just to try it out
because this is the Cloud and we can do whatever we want.
So, we can do instance state, and then terminate instance.
If we do so, we're going to get a warning message
and don't click on terminate
because I want to keep this instance with me, okay?
But this is how we would get rid of it.
So I cancel this, but what I'm going to do now
is I'm going to start my instance again.
So I go to instance state and then start instance.
And now as you can see the state is pending,
so it is getting started,
and I just wait for it to be started in the green state
and I will show you something very interesting.
Okay, so my instance is now running.
And if I go here and stop the refresh
and try again to refresh, as you can see,
it still goes into an infinite loop.
Well, you may say, well, the server is running, Stefan,
so why is it not displaying the message now?
It is displaying here, but like from the old one, of course.
So here, the IP start with 54, right?
But here, if you click on here,
now the public IP start with 3.250.
So the public IP actually has changed,
so if you stop an instance and then you start it later on,
then AWS will maybe change its public IPv4.
So therefore, you need to copy the new IPv4,
make sure to use HTTP, and voila,
we have access back to our EC2 instance.
But one thing that has not changed is the private IPv4,
the private IP will always stay the same,
but the public IPv4 may change, okay?
So, well, so that's it for this hands on.
We have seen quite a lot of things.
We've launched our first EC2 instance,
which is very exciting, our first web server in the Cloud.
We've had to look at some of the power of the Cloud.
You're just using some API calls to stop an instance,
start instance, and so on.

---

130. AWS Lambda

Okay, so now let's talk about AWS Lambda.
So if we use an EC2 instance,
we have a virtual server in the Cloud,
but we are bounded by the amount of memory
and CPU power we give it.
It is continuously running,
even though sometimes we don't use it.
And if we want to scale, we can use an Auto Scaling group,
but that means that we need to add or remove servers
over time.
That may be a little slow,
or they may be sometimes very complicated to implement.
With Lambda, this is a new way to think about it.
In this case, we don't have servers,
we just have virtual functions.
And these functions are limited by time.
So they're intended for shorter type of executions.
They will run on demand.
So that means that whenever we run a function,
it will be there to be run.
But whenever we don't need a function, it will not be run
and we will not be billed for it.
And in case we need scaling,
it's already automated as part of the Lambda service,
and this is why Lambda is a very popular service from AWS.
So the benefits of using AWS Lambda
is that the pricing is, first of all, super easy.
You're going to pay per request and per compute time.
And the free tier is also very generous.
So you get every month, 1 million Lambda invocations,
and 400,000 gigabyte seconds of compute time.
What this means is that you can run on Lambda
some pretty good services for free.
Now it is integrated with the whole AWS suite of services.
So we have integration with so many of the services
we've seen so far, and it is, very important, event-driven.
So the functions will only get invoked by AWS
when something happens, when an event happens
or when needed.
So that makes Lambda a reactive type of service,
which is important going into the exam.
It is fully integrated with many programming languages.
You get easy monitoring through CloudWatch.
We haven't seen what CloudWatch is,
but it will be the monitoring solution in AWS.
And finally, it's easy to get more resources per function.
We can get up to 10 gigabytes of RAM per function,
and if you do increase the RAM, it will also improve the CPU
and the network quality.
So all in all, very good.
AWS Lambda can run many languages
such as Node.js or JavaScript, Python, Java, C#,
so either .NET Core or PowerShell, Ruby,
and it supports many other languages
through something called the Custom Runtime API,
for example, it supports the Rust or the Golang languages
through that.
You also have the option to use containers on Lambda.
So this is a container image,
and you must implement what's called the Lambda Runtime API.
Now, that may be too advanced from an exam perspective,
but what I want you to remember
is that there is a service named ECS or Fargate,
and so to run container images, especially Docker images,
it is always going to be preferred from an exam perspective
to run them on ECS or Fargate versus Lambda,
even though Lambda supports running
some level of customized Docker images.
So you don't need to remember all the languages, of course,
for Lambda, but just remember that it has
some level of support.
The most important ones is going to be for sure Node.js
and Python.
Here is a very common use case of Lambda,
which is to create a serverless thumbnail creation service.
So say we have an S3 bucket and we add images in it,
so our users are uploading a beach image into an S3 bucket.
The S3 bucket will trigger a Lambda function
once the image is uploaded,
and that Lambda function will take that image
and will change it to create a thumbnail.
It will push the thumbnail back into Amazon S3.
So a thumbnail is a smaller version of the image,
or it will also push some metadata about the thumbnail
into DynamoDB.
That includes the image size, the image name,
the creation dates, et cetera, et cetera.
And all of this is fully event-driven and fully serverless.
With S3, we don't provision servers.
With Lambda, we don't provision servers,
and with DynamoDB, as well, we don't provision any servers.
So that is a great pattern
because this serverless thumbnail creation
will scale really, really well,
and we will be able to not worry about provisioning servers
to make it scale.
Now, there's another very common use case for Lambda,
which is to create a serverless CRON job.
So CRON allows you to define a schedule, for example,
every hour, every day, or every Monday,
and based on that schedule to run a script.
And by default, a CRON job is run on a Linux AMI,
so on a Linux machine.
But we are serverless,
so we cannot provision an EC2 instance.
So instead, we'll be using something
called CloudWatch Events or EventBridge,
and this service, that we'll see later on in this course,
will be triggering every one hour our Lambda function
to perform a task.
And effectively, we have no servers in this
because CloudWatch Events is serverless
and Lambda is serverless,
and so effectively we're launching a script every hour
through a Lambda function.
So I hope you can see now the trigger of it,
the Lambda functions is really for serverless functions
in the Cloud.
Now, let's just talk about the pricing.
So you can find the Lambda pricing at this URL,
but it's very simple.
You pay per call, so that means the first 1 million
Lambda invocations are free,
and then it's also very, very cheap.
You're going to pay 20 cents
per 1 million requests thereafter.
You also going to pay for the duration.
So the free tier, as I said, is 400,000 gigabyte seconds
of compute time for free.
And that means it's 400,000 seconds
if the function has one gigabyte of RAM
or 3.2 million seconds
if the function has 128 megabyte of RAM.
After that, you're going to pay $1
for 600,000 gigabyte seconds.
So all in all, the bottom line
is that it's going to be very cheap to run Lambda on AWS,
and so it's a very popular service
to run your serverless applications and websites.
And going into the CCP exam,
you need to remember that Lambda pricing
is based on calls and duration.

---

131. AWS Lambda - Hands On


Okay, so let's practice Lambda.
And so if you go in the Lambda console
and you get one of these screens, just go into the URL
and go to slash and go to slash begin
because I really like this little UI
to show you how Lambda is working first.
It's just to show you a diagram.
So here we have the Lambda function,
and as you can see, it can be written in several languages,
for example, .NET, Java, Node.js, Python, Ruby,
or a custom runtime if you wanted to
to have other languages.
So here, let's take our Node.js and click on Run.
So it runs and says, "Hello from Lambda."
Next we click on Lambda Responds to Events.
So here the pretty cool thing is that
we have access to different sources of event triggers
that are going to trigger our Lambda function.
As you can see right now, we get streaming analytics
that's sending data into our Lambda function
and our Lambda function is saying, "Hello from Lambda."
And so if I somehow click more on all these things,
so this, the mobile phone and the camera and so on,
as you can see, my Lambda function is scaling up.
So right now only have one pair of cogs
but if I click a lot more, my Lambda is scaling up
and now I have eight or nine,
which shows that Lambda can scale seamlessly
and is very nice because, well,
you get access to scalability
without managing any kind of servers.
So Lambda can respond to events,
for example, here, streaming analytics
or your mobile phone sending data
into a mobile or IOT backend
or photos being dropped into an S3 bucket
and Lambda reacting to it in real time.
So here as we can see,
the more invocations we have, at first it's free
because we have a generous free tier,
but then if we start having a lot more events,
the invocations are going to increase faster
and then the cost is going to accumulate.
So Lambda can be a cheap service,
but, again, it's for you to estimate your workload
and see how much it would cost you.
So here are some information around what's free.
Next, let's click on Create a Function.
And so we're going to use a blueprint
and we're going to use the hello world.
So hello world, and I will choose Python.
So it could be whatever Python version you want, but Python.
And I'll call this one HelloWorld.
And now we have the execution role.
So your Lambda function
is going to be having execution role.
This is similar to the role you would set
on an EC2 instance, but this time it's for Lambda function.
So we're going to create a new role
with basic Lambda permissions,
and then this is the function code
that will be created automatically.
So let's create this function.
So my function is now created,
and as we can see, we have the code right here
that's available to us.
And so we have a function
and it's saying hey, load this function.
And then we have a handler.
This is what gets invoked when an event is passed
and say hey, we have value one equals this,
value two equals this, value three equals this,
and then we return just the first event key.
So it's not very important
for you to know code or anything like this,
just so you know that this is the code that gets executed
whenever our Lambda function is executed.
So what we can do
is that we can actually test our function right here
and we click on Test,
and as you can see, it has succeeded
and we get value1 as a result.
So the input JSON is in the bottom,
this is our hello-world template
and key1, value1, key2, value2, key3, value3
has been passed as a JSON to our Lambda function.
And our Lambda function returned this log,
and as you can see, it's successfully executed.
If I trigger a failure, for example, by removing this key,
I'm just going to remove it temporarily and then test it,
my code is going to fail
because my code does not know how to handle this exception.
This is just something that I know from the code, okay?
So I put this back in and I can test it again.
So we can save our Lambda function
and we say this is our HelloWorld
event and we save,
and now we have saved our test event,
so now we can test it as many times as we want.
So we also have the option to monitor our Lambda function.
So this is where you get invocations from CloudWatch,
we know some statistics,
so it takes a bit of time to populate,
but if you run it and wait, you'll see some stuff here
and you can click on View CloudWatch Logs.
This is where you're going to get the logs of your function.
And so if I look at my log stream one,
as we can see, we get the first time passed,
so we get the value1 equals one and so on.
And then we also get the error
that happened at some point when I triggered it.
And so this is cool because we can debug our functions
directly from the CloudWatch logs.
Okay, then we get access to come to some configuration.
So this is where you set
the general configuration of your Lambda function,
the memory, and you can set it to very large
or very small, ephemeral storage,
the timeout, so how long you want it to run
before saying it should fail,
and the execution role.
So this role, if you click on it,
is the role that allows you to access CloudWatch.
So if we look at it,
this is the basic Lambda role execution.
And if we look at what it does,
and we click on this,
as you can see, the permissions
is around the CloudWatch Logs.
And so this allows our Lambda function
to write to CloudWatch Logs.
And this is very handy
because if we wanted to also interact
with Amazon S3 and so on,
we would just go ahead and change that role
and add more permissions to that IAM role.
Okay, so let's cancel.
So this is general configuration.
As you can see, there's tons of configuration
in the Lambda world, so I don't wanna go over this,
but two things I wanna show you.
So first, permissions here.
So as you can see, the role again is here
and we get a role summary.
So we can see that CloudWatch Logs is allowed
and we have three actions allowed.
We can do it by resource or by action.
And then I wanna show you the triggers.
So currently we have no triggers, but we can add a trigger,
and this shows you all the sources of events
that can be triggering a Lambda function.
So this is a lot of them.
We have some AWS as well as some partner events,
but Amazon S3, for example,
is going to be one of the main use case,
and you have to select a bucket and event types.
But this is too much for right now.
Okay, so we have pretty much seen
how our Lambda function is working end to end.
Obviously this is something that can be explored a lot more
because this is a very complete service,
but this is good enough for an intro.

---

132. Amazon Macie

Now let's talk about Macie.
Macie is a fully managed data security
and data privacy service that will use machine learning
and pattern matching to discover
and protect your sensitive data in AWS.
More specifically, it will alert you around sensitive data
such as personally identifiable information,
which is named PII.
So very simply, your PII data will be in your S3 buckets
and it will be analyzed by Macie
which will discover what data can be classified as PII.
And then will notify you
through EventBridge of the discoveries.
Then you can have integrations into an SNS topic,
Lambda functions and so on.
So Macie in this instance will be used
to find the sensitive data in your S3 buckets
and that's the only thing it will do.
It's just one click to enable it.
You just specify the S3 buckets you want to have
and that will be it.
So that's it for this lecture, very, very short,
but that's enough on Macie.

---

133. AWS Config

Now let's talk about AWS Config.
So Config helps with auditing and recording the compliance
of your resources by recording the configuration
and their changes over time.
So any time we've been doing some manual changes
of the configuration in AWS, we did not have a list
of all the changes that happened,
but we can have this using Config.
Then this configuration data can be stored into Amazon S3,
to be later analyzed by Athena, or to be recovered.
The question that can be solved by using Config,
can be is there unrestricted SSH access
to my security groups?
Or do buckets have any public access?
Or has my ALB configuration changed over time?
All these things can be resolved by Config and Config rules.
Then you can receive alerts through SNS notifications
for any changes done onto your infrastructure,
and Config is a per-region service,
but you can create multiple Config configurations
and then aggregate all the results across all the accounts
and all the regions.
So let's have an example of how Config work.
So if you want to see the compliance of a resource
over time, this is for a security group,
you can see that it was noncompliant,
and then after making some changes,
it became compliant and green.
You can also view the configuration of a resource over time
to see how their configuration
of that security group has changed.
And finally, you can view who made these changes
to the resources based on CloudTrail
if you have enabled CloudTrail in your accounts.
So I am in the Config console, I'm going to get started,
and I need to choose the type of resources
that I want to record.
Just know that Config is not a free service,
so if you enable it, then you will have to pay.
For this, I will enable to record all the resources
in this region, including the global resources,
and it will create a bucket
in which all the configuration will be stored.
Then I can select a topic to send notifications
to for all the changes of the configurations.
I will disable this for now,
and it will create a Config service-linked role.
I'll click on next, then I can choose Config rules,
so these are rules to apply on my account.
For example, to check if SSH is open.
So the restricted-ssh is one rule,
you can have also public entry buckets.
So if you go to rds-instance-public-access-check,
for example this is an example, or if I type S3,
we can see s3-bucket-logging-enabled,
or s3-account-level-public-access-blocks.
So these are a bunch of rules in which they can be enabled
to check the compliance of our resources within our account.
For this example, and remember this is going to be paid,
I'm going to enable the restricted-ssh rule to show you
the compliance of my security groups.
I'll click on Next, and then as I can see,
I'm going to record the configuration of all the resources,
it's going to be put in the S3 bucket,
and it is going to apply this Config rule, restricted-ssh.
I'll click on Confirm,
and setting up Config can take a time,
so I will wait for Config to be done,
and to record everything in my account.
Okay, so I'm in Config, and I'm going to use the new console
to match your experience, and so in Config,
what I'm going to be able to see is the inventory
of all my resources in AWS.
As you can see, I have five security groups,
three subnet, one InternetGateway,
and so on you can read with me.
And it turns out, that as part of all my resources,
I have some resources that are not compliant.
So there's one rule that is not compliant,
and that is the restricted-ssh rule.
If I click on this, I can look at the rule detail,
and I can see the resources in scope,
and I can see that three out of five security groups
are not compliant.
So if I click on one of these security group,
I can look at the details of the security group,
and I can see the rule is applied,
and I can see that this rule is not compliant.
So this rule, what did it describe?
Well, it described the fact that there is unrestricted
SSH allowed onto my security group.
So what I can do, is that I can fix this rule.
So let's go into Resources and then I will find
my security group that is not compliant, so this one,
and we'll click on it,
and then I'm going to click on Resource Timeline.
So I can see my configuration timeline,
and I can see that my configuration was done
on the 2nd of June, and I can also look at
my compliance timeline, and I can see
that my security group right now, is not compliant.
So if I scroll down, I look at the rules,
and say, yes, this is not compliant,
and this is because we have a port opened
on SSH for everyone to use.
So what I can do is that I can fix this resource.
So for this I'm gonna go
into our security group configurations,
so this is this one I'm looking at,
and I'm gonna go into the EC2 consoles,
so I'll go into EC2, I will find the security group.
On the left-hand side I will go under security groups,
I will filter for the security group I'm looking for,
press Enter, here it is, and for the inbound rule
I can see that yes, SSH on port 22 is opened for everyone.
So what I'm going to do is that I will for example,
delete this rule temporarily, save the rule,
and then what I'll be waiting for is for my resource
to become compliant again.
So for this, I can either wait a little bit of time,
and this would show me the compliance,
or I can go a bit faster,
and then I can launch a rule and make sure it runs again.
So this rule that I created right here, I can do Action,
and Re-evaluate, and this is going to re-evaluate
all my noncompliant resources.
So let me pause a bit to wait for it to be done.
Now I'm going to refresh this page,
and what we are seeing now is that only two noncompliant
resources are done, so what I did, did fix one compliance.
If you go back to the Resource Timeline,
and I'm going to refresh this again,
let's see what happened.
We can see that now my resource is green,
and it's compliant, and if I click on Changes,
I can see that the fact that my Config rule
went from noncompliant to compliant.
If we want to look at the configuration changes
that are associated with this,
if I go to Configuration Timeline, I can see
that the resource has changed configuration on this.
So if I go to one change, I can click on it,
and I can see that this rule right here
that is described as-is, went to nothing,
which means it was deleted.
And if you look at CloudTrail,
we have the CloudTrail integration that said
that my root user did remove that security ingress rule.
And we can view that event in Details in CloudTrail.
So I hope that's helpful, I hope you now understand
the whole aspect of using Config to track
the resource configuration and their compliance over time,
and this is very helpful to ensure that all the resources
created by your employees within your company are compliant
with whatever you have decided for security rules.

---

134. Amazon Inspector

So now let's talk about Amazon Inspector.
So Amazon Inspector is a service that allows you
to run automated security assessments on a couple of things.
First of all, on the E2 instances.
So you are going to be leveraging the Systems Manager agent
on your EC2 instances and Amazon Inspector
is going to start to assess the security
of that E2 instance.
It's going to analyze against unintended network
accessibility and also analyze the running operating system
for known vulnerabilities.
This is done continuously.
Then we have also Amazon Inspector
for your Container Images push to Amazon ECR.
For example, your Docker images.
So as your Container Images are being pushed
to Amazon ECR, they will be analyzed
by Amazon Inspector against known vulnerabilities.
And we also have Amazon Inspector for Lambda functions.
So Lambda functions, when they're deployed,
will be analyzed again
by Inspector for software vulnerabilities
in the function code and the package dependencies.
And this assessment happens
as the functions are being deployed.
So once Amazon Inspector is done doing its job,
it can report its findings
into the AWS Security Hub and also send findings
and events of these findings into Amazon EventBridge.
This gives you one way to centrally
see the vulnerabilities running on your infrastructure
and with EventBridge you can run some kind of automations.
So what does Amazon Inspector evaluate?
You have to remember, the Inspector is only
for your running EC2 instances, your Container Images
on Amazon ECR and your Lambda functions.
And it's going to do a continuous scanning
of the infrastructure only when needed.
So it's going to look
at a database of vulnerabilities, so CVE,
for package vulnerability for EC2, ECR and Lambda.
And it's going to look
at network reachability on Amazon EC2
and in case the database of CVE gets updated,
then Amazon Inspector is going to automatically
run again to make sure
that all your infrastructure is tested one more time.
Every time it will run,
a risk score is going to be associated
with all the vulnerabilities for prioritization.
So that's it for Amazon Inspector.

---

135. AWS CloudTrail

So now let's talk about AWS CloudTrail.
So CloudTrail is a service that provides governance,
compliance and audit for your AWS accounts.
And whenever you use an account
it's going to be enabled by default
because CloudTrail will get an history of all the API calls
or events that happen within your accounts.
And this is very important because you've
if someone, for example, logs in the console
then whatever they do will be logged in CloudTrail.
If someone uses the SDK, it will be logged in CloudTrail.
If someone does a command with the commanded line interface
it will again be logged
with CloudTrail
as well as any service activity
as well will be logged in CloudTrail.
So that means
that anything that happens will be put in CloudTrail.
And then for you,
for audit and security purposes
you can take the logs of all the history
of events and API calls made within CloudTrail
and send them to two locations,
either CloudWatch Logs or Amazon S3.
Now, when you create a trail in CloudTrail,
you can actually apply it to all the regions
to monitor what's happening in all regions.
And then the trail can go into CloudWatch Logs or Amazon S3
or just trail it down to a single region.
So the example that's queued, hey for example,
a user has deleted something.
How would we know what has been deleted
and who deleted it and when?
Then the answer is going to be CloudTrail.
So anytime there is an API call that needs to be looked up
CloudTrail is going to be the right answer.
So to summarize.
From within the CloudTrail console
we can have information about usage of the SDK,
CLI and console,
as well as any IAM users and IAM roles
and all the API calls they make,
then the CloudTrail consult will display it.
But if you want long term retention of data
what you can do is that you can send them to CloudWatch Logs
or to your S3 bucket for longer term retention.
And from within CloudTrail
you can do any type of inspection and audit.
So that's it for this lecture.

---

136. AWS CloudTrail - Hands On

So let's have a look at CloudTrail.
And CloudTrail is a service to intercept any API calls
or user activity within your accounts.
And so here on here on the left hand side panel,
we can have a look at the event history
and this is the event history
for the last 90 days of management events.
So you can see all the API calls that are being made
over time in this account.
So it doesn't have to be very interesting, okay,
but all of them will be here.
So what I wanna do for example, is that I want
to look in my EC2 console, and I created a demo instance.
And what I'm going to do is that I'm going
to terminate this instance.
So I do right click, terminate,
and now the instance is being terminated.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to check whether
or not this event happens and appears within CloudTrail.
So I'm going to wait about five minutes and get back to you.
And so I just refreshed my pages, and as you can see,
I ran the terminate instances, API call.
And we can see what's the event source.
So it's EC2 from where it was done,
the access key that was used,
the region that was used, and so on.
And we can get the whole event right here.
So that's the full power of CloudTrail is
that we can see all the events really happening
from within CloudTrail directly in this UI.
And this is a short introduction at the practitioner level,
but this is enough for you to get started
and to answer questions at the exam.

---

137. AWS Artifact


So now let's talk about AWS Artifact,
which is not really a service, but something else.
So it's a portal that provides customers
with on-demand access to AWS compliance documentation
and AWS agreements.
So you're gonna get Artifact Reports that allows you
to download AWS security and compliance documents
from third-party auditors,
like the ISO certifications from AWS,
the PCI reports, the SOC reports, and so on.
You can also look at Artifact Agreements,
which allow you to review, accept, and track the status
of AWS agreements,
such as the Business Associate Addendum, BAA,
or the HIPAA agreements
for individual accounts or for your organization.
And all these things allow you to download
basically a bunch of reports,
and these allow you to support your efforts
for internal audits or any sort of compliance.
So anytime you see compliance or reports in the exam,
you have to think about AWS Artifacts.
On top of it, AWS Artifact has been extended
to third-party reports.
That means you get on-demand access
to security compliance reports,
not just from AWS, but from independent software vendors,
or ISVs.
So they're going to submit the reports in Artifact
and you can visualize them.
These reports are only accessible to the customers
who have been granted access
to the AWS Marketplace Vendor Insights for a specific ISV,
which is on the marketplace where you're going
to contract these third-party vendors anyway.
And then on top of it, Artifact has the capability now
to send notifications whenever the reports are available.
That means that you as an administrator,
whenever an ISV submits an report,
you can directly receive an email notification.
So that's it for this lecture on AWS Artifacts.

---

138. AWS Artifact - Hands On

From <https://jpmc.udemy.com/course/aws-ai-practitioner-certified/learn/lecture/45375629#content> 
Transcript
So here I am in the artifact console
and I just wanna show you briefly what it does.
So we can click on agreements,
and here this is going to display the agreements
for our accounts or our organization if our account
is part of an organization.
But so for the account agreements,
we can have a look at some of them.
For example, the Australian Notifiable Data Breach Addendum.
And as you can see right now it's inactive,
but we can accept these agreements
or download them directly from within this page,
which can help with your compliance
based on if you need it or not of course.
Then for reports,
this is the reports coming either from AWS
or third party reports.
So as you can see, we have over 200 reports from AWS.
For example, if I look at SOC, I can have a look
at the SOC compliance from AWS,
which is somewhere around here.
And for all these, this one for example, we can go ahead
and quickly download this report to support
our compliance efforts and audit efforts within our company.
And if I subscribed to third party ISVs
through the marketplace, I could see the reports are here
directly from within artifact, which is nice.
And finally, here's the notification setting.
So you are able to set up notifications.
This is a bit more complicated than just click and click,
but you can see here
that administrator can set up artifact notifications
to be notified
whenever there is a new report, compliance report being sent
by AWS or third parties into artifacts.

---

139. AWS Audit Manager

So let's talk
about the AWS Audit Manager Service.
So this is a service to help you assess risk
and compliance of your AWS workloads
and to continuously audit your services usage
and prepare for audits.
So if your company, it's getting an audit
because you are preparing for the framework,
such as the GDPR or the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act type, HIPAA, or the PCI compliance
or the SOC 2 Control and so on,
you need to gather a lot of evidence.
You need to gather a lot of compliance reports
and provide this as evidence
when you submit to get certified in these things.
And this is where Audit Manager is going to help you.
So it's going to look at the framework
you want to include in your assessment,
and then for it, it's going to generate reports
of compliance for all your resources
alongside evidence folders.
And, of course, if something is not compliant,
then it will tell you
and you will have action items to resolve them.
So this is continuous and that's the power of it.
As your organization grows
and your activity continues, you know whether
or not you are still auditable
and you are still compliant with some frameworks.
So to summarize, for Audit Manager,
this helps you continuously audit your usage to simplify
how you assess risk and compliance
and make sure you can get past some frameworks.
So you select the frameworks you want,
then you define the scope, so which accounts and regions
and services you want.
Then you're going to get Automated Evidence Collection,
so continuously gathering evidence
across all your resources,
and then you can look at control reviews
or you can delegate your resource orders
to validate the audits that was done.
Then in case of issues, you can identify root causes
and then you can generate reports
that can be ready for audits.

---

140. AWS Trusted Advisor

From <https://jpmc.udemy.com/course/aws-ai-practitioner-certified/learn/lecture/45375629#content> 
Transcript
So now, let's talk about AWS Trusted Advisor.
So you don't need to install anything.
It's a service that gives you a high level
account assessment on your account.
It's going to check for a few things
and advise you on them.
So the checks can be, for example,
do you have EBS Public Snapshots?
Or do you have RDS Public Snapshots?
Or are you using the root accounts for your accounts?
So all these things are checked by Trusted Advisor
and they are grouped in six categories.
We have cost optimization, performance,
security, fault tolerance,
service limits, and operational excellence.
So you have what's called the three sets of checks,
the core sets of checks,
and then you have the full set of checks.
And to have access to the full set of checks,
you need to have a business
or an enterprise support plan.
On top of it, if you do switch
on the business and enterprise support plan,
then you get programmatic access
to Trusted Advisor through the AWS Support API.
So I think it's best for you to see what Trusted
Advisor is made of to really understand it.
So here, I am in Trusted Advisor.
And as you can see, you have recommendations.
So zero actions are recommended,
but two investigations are recommended for me,
and then there are some checks on excluded items or not.
But as we can see, we have two
on security that must be looked at.
So it turns out that one of my bucket
is actually allowing a global access.
So I need to verify it and make sure it's correct.
And as you can see, 29 of my 60 security group rules
allow unrestricted access to a specific port.
So again, this is something I should look at.
Maybe that's my intention, maybe that's a problem.
But you can see right away,
I get prompted to upgrade my support plan
to get all Trusted Advisor checks.
So let me show you what I mean.
On the left-hand side,
we have the Recommendation categories.
And if I click on Cost optimization,
as you can see, I get none of the checks available
because I need to update my support plan.
So all these things are actually not available for me
and I need to pay for the service
to actually make some cost optimizations.
Same for performance, I get access to nothing.
If I go to Fault tolerance,
again, I get access to nothing.
Operational excellence, again, access to nothing.
The only two things I have access to is security.
So here, we get some checks, the core checks.
And in here, I have my Bucket Permissions,
my Security Group ports, my EBS Public Snapshot,
RDS Public Snapshot, and so on.
But as soon as I go in here
to the more advanced security checks,
then, again, I need to update my support plan.
Finally, you can have a look
at Service limits directly in Trusted Advisor.
That's one way of doing it.
So you can have a look at your Auto Scaling Groups,
your CloudFormation Stacks, your DynamoDB Read
and Write Capacity and so on.
So Trusted Advisor is not a very interesting service
to look at when you don't pay for the support plan,
but at least this should give you an idea
of how Trusted Advisor is used in AWS,
and therefore answer your exam questions on it.

---

141. VPC & Network Security

From <https://jpmc.udemy.com/course/aws-ai-practitioner-certified/learn/lecture/45375629#content> 
Transcript
Now let's talk about VPC
and network security.
So VPC is a concept that you should know
in depth when you pass
the AWS Certified Solution Architect Associate course
or exam, and also the Certified SysOps Administrator exams.
But for the Certified AI Practitioner level,
you still should know about it but at a high level.
So we'll learn in this lecture about VPCs,
subnets, internet gateways, and NAT gateways.
and we'll learn about VPC endpoints and PrivateLink.
Usually when you will see an exam question
related to VPC at this exam, the AI Practitioner level,
then it's usually to deploy models privately
or accessing AWS Services privately
without going through that internet.
And so I wanna give you
the reason why this is the case and why we need it.
So first of all, let's talk about VPCs and subnets.
So VPC stands for Virtual Private Cloud,
it's a private network for you to deploy your resources.
So we have within the VPC, a subnet
and they allow you to partition your network
inside of your VPC.
So here in a specific availability zone,
we're going to have multiple subnets.
For example, we can have a public subnet
that's a subnet that is going to be
publicly accessible from the internet.
And we may have private subnets,
there's subnets that are not accessible from the internet.
And so for sometimes you may want to use a public subnet
and deploy your application there.
For example, if you deploy a website or a web application,
you may want people to access your websites publicly.
But then we also have private subnets
and so this is for example,
if you're doing internal data analysis.
For example, if you want to analyze
your S3 data with SageMaker,
then you don't really need to have this application
being accessible from the internet
so therefore this is a security risk.
So there is a need for public and private subnets.
Now, if we look at a VPC in the cloud,
VPCs are for each specific regions.
And then you will have a IP range called CIDR Range
but don't linger on this.
And within it you'll have multiple
availability zones usually.
So each AZ will have a public and a private subnet,
and another AZ will have another public
and another private subnet.
And this is called high availability
because now you have multiple subnets
over multiple availability zones.
Now this is just a level you need to know,
this is probably a little bit more
but remember from this slide,
we have multiple public subnets
and multiple private subnets.
So now how do we give internet access to these things?
So if you have a public subnet,
then automatically it's able to connect to the internet.
And the way to do so is to use
what's called an internet gateway.
And so the public subnet will have a route
to the internet gateway
and therefore it will make our instances
directly accessible from the web.
But if we have instances in a private subnet,
we may not want them to be accessible from the internet
but we may want them to access the internet
because well, we may want for example,
to download data from the internet
or update some libraries and so on.
And so therefore, we may use something called a NAT gateway.
And a NAT gateway will be used in a public subnet,
deployed in a public subnet,
and then accessed privately by the private subnet instances.
And so the flow of information here is in one direction,
meaning the private subnet resources
can access the internet through the NAT gateway,
but they're still not accessible from the internet.
The internet cannot reach directly the private subnet,
so this is good network security.
So as we can see here,
the public summit has an internet gateway,
and the private summit will leverage a NAT gateway.
Now, let's talk about VPC endpoints and PrivateLink,
and this is what will come up the most at the exam.
So by default when you're using AWS,
anytime you're using an AWS Service,
you are accessing it by default over the public internet.
This is why when you go to the console,
you are able to use all the services of AWS,
that means that all the APIs are public.
But sometimes you may want within AWS
to deploy your application in private subnets.
And as we said before, they may not have internet access.
So for example, imagine there is no internet gateway
and there is no NAT gateway, okay?
So your applications really don't have internet access.
But how do we make these application
access our AWS Services?
For this, we may want to use
what's called the VPC endpoints and that allows us
to access our AWS Services privately
without going over the public internet.
And these VPC endpoints are usually powered
by it's called...
By something that's called AWS PrivateLink
so if you see at the exam, PrivateLink or VPC endpoints,
they are pretty much the same.
So the idea behind using VPC endpoints
is that all the traffic remains within the network of AWS.
So for example, let's have an application
deployed in a private subnet in our VPC,
and then we want to be able to invoke our Bedrock model.
So how do we do this?
Well, because we don't have access to the internet,
we need to deploy a Bedrock VPC endpoint,
which is going to be privately connected
to our Bedrock service,
this is why it's called, PrivateLink.
And then our application is able
to access resources within the VPC,
so the Bedrock VPC endpoint,
which is going to forward the request to the Bedrock model.
But all these things happen
within the network of AWS and privately.
There is a special case for Amazon S3,
something called an S3 Gateway Endpoint,
which is an alternative to something called
an S3 Interface Endpoint.
And this allows you to access S3 data privately
so there is, similarly, you don't need to know really
the difference between gateway and interface
at this level of the exam,
so we'll just talk about a VPC endpoints.
Again, we have a VPC endpoint for Amazon S3,
and then it's connected directly privately
to the Amazon S3 service.
And then our SageMaker notebook can access Amazon S3 data
through the S3 VPC endpoints, and that's it.
And so we've seen the need for network security.
We've seen private subnets
to deploy applications with maximum security.
And so therefore, because we have this,
we've seen the need of using VPC endpoints and PrivateLink
to access AWS Services internally.
If you've understood this,
you will rock any question about VPC at the exam.

---

142. AWS Security Services - Summary

From <https://jpmc.udemy.com/course/aws-ai-practitioner-certified/learn/lecture/45375629#content> 
Transcript
So now, lets have a summary of all
the security services
that we've seen so far in this course.
So we have IAM users, and this is a user with an IAM.
It's usually mapped to a physical user
and it has a password for the console.
IAM groups are containing users only,
and it's a way to group users.
And IAM policies is a document with the JSON format
that will outline the permission
for the users or for the groups.
An IAM role is a role for a service.
For example, an EC2 instance
or any AWS service such as, for example, Amazon Bedrock,
which is using roles to, for example, allow agents
to perform what they need to perform.
The EC2 instance is a server,
so it's made of an OS and AMI.
Instance sizes, so CPU, RAM, we've seen that there
is a GPU type of instances
for EC2 instances.
It has storage, security group for network access control,
and user data to define how these EC2 instances can come
with some things already installed on them.
Lambda is a way for you
to run code in the cloud in a serverless fashion.
So it's a function as a service, seamless scaling,
and it's used for automations into many
things in the AI world.
Now, VPC Endpoints are powered by AWS PrivateLink
and it allow you to provide private access
to some services within the VPC.
So that means that the network never leaves AWS.
There's an exception to this.
It's the Amazon S3 service, for it to be private,
in terms of network traffic,
you could use an S3 Gateway Endpoints.
Now we have Macie.
Macie is a way for you to find sensitive data,
such as PII data, stored in Amazon S3 buckets,
which could be very handy to do before,
for example, training a gen AI model.
So you want to clean the data before you actually train
a model on this data.
Config is to track the configuration changes
and the complaints against some rules you may set.
Inspector is to find software vulnerabilities in an EC2,
in ECR images and Lambda functions.
CloudTrail is to track API calls
made by users within the accounts
for any kind of service on AWS.
Artifact gets you access to complaint reports.
such as PCI, ISO and so on.
And Trusted Advisors gives you insights
and also tells you which support plan is
adapted to your needs.
Now if we look at Bedrock, for example, IAM
with Bedrock is going to be used
to perform identity verification for users
and resource level access control.
You will define in IAM the roles
and the permissions to users
so they can access Bedrock resources.
For example, data scientists and so on.
GuardRails for Bedrock is used
to restrict topics directly from within the GenAI
application, filter harmful contents
and ensure compliance with safety policies
by analyzing user inputs.
If you use CloudTrail now with Bedrock, you're going
to see within CloudTrail, all the API calls that your users,
for example, from within IAM,
made to Amazon Bedrock.
For config with Bedrock, we're going to look at
all the configuration changes within Amazon Bedrock,
for example, how you configured and changed
a knowledge base over time.
And if you look at PrivateLink with Amazon Bedrock,
this is a way for you to keep all the API calls made
to Amazon Bedrock private within your VPC.

---

143. Scenarios for Security

From <https://jpmc.udemy.com/course/aws-ai-practitioner-certified/learn/lecture/45375629#content> 
Transcript
So here are a few security scenarios
that can come up in the exam.
For example, Amazon Bedrock must access
an encrypted S3 bucket.
So, for example, say we want to customize a model,
we wanna fine tune it,
so therefore we must access custom model data
that is going to be stored in Amazon S3.
But Amazon S3 has different levels
of security and encryption
and for example, we can encrypt Amazon S3 with KMS,
which is key management service
and so we define a KMS key
and automatically then Amazon S3
will know to encrypt the data
with the SSE-KMS type of encryption
and so all the data is going to be encrypted onto Amazon S3.
I'm keeping it as simple as possible on this one.
So how can we make Amazon Bedrock
access the encrypted data on Amazon S3?
Well, Bedrock have the ability to have IM Roles
and so we can assign an IAM Role to the customization job,
the fine tuning job,
and we need to make sure that the IM Role
has access number one to Amazon S3
to allow Amazon Bedrock to access our data in Amazon S3.
But because our data is encrypted,
we must also give access from the IM Role to the KMS key
with the decrypt permission.
And so therefore, because now our Bedrock job
will have an IAM Role that allows both access to Amazon S3
and to decrypt the data on it
because it has access to the key,
then we should be able to pull the data out of S3
and use it for our customized model.
So this is an exam question that can come up.
Also, for example, we've seen this before,
but we deploy a SageMaker model in your VPC
and we want to access data on Amazon S3
but all of this privately.
Well the SageMaker resources such as, for example,
notebooks or training jobs or hosted endpoints
can be in our VPC and so therefore,
if we want to access everything privately,
we need to use a VPC endpoint for Amazon S3,
which may have a security with a security group,
this is network security,
and also may have an endpoint policy.
This is a way for you to regulate access
through IAM permissions to your VPC endpoints
and finally, your SageMaker notebooks or jobs
or hosted endpoints may have access to an IAM Role,
which allows access to the VPC endpoint itself.
So a lot of moving pieces for security,
but we should remember out of it
is that always IAM Roles are used
to access specific AWS resources
and also VPC endpoints are used
to access privately some AWS services.
So the same song now.
So we have an application in a private subnet
and Bedrock has a model and we want to access it privately.
Again, we have a VPC endpoint for Amazon Bedrock
using PrivateLink with again,
Security Group and Endpoint Policy
and if everything is set up correctly,
then our application should be able
to access our Bedrock model
directly through this VPC Endpoints.
Also, how do we have Bedrock access analysis
with CloudTrail?
So here is a common exam scenario
in which we want to be able to see if users are authorized
or not to access Bedrock
and if they're trying to access Bedrock
if they're unauthorized.
So first the good use case.
So we have Bedrock, we have a user and CloudTrail
and the user has the correct permissions
to access Amazon Bedrock.
It's going to use the Amazon Bedrock service
and for example, we go on the custom models page
and automatically we're going to invoke,
behind the scenes, the list custom models API.
So Amazon Bedrock is going to send every single API call
it receives to CloudTrail as a CloudTrail event
and so here the Bedrock list custom models API
is going to be sent to CloudTrail,
which is going to generate an event
and so we'll see that the user A
did try to invoke successfully the list custom models API.
Now what happens if user B does not have access
to Amazon Bedrock?
So it tries to do the exact same thing.
It goes on the Bedrock console
and automatically the web browser
will invoke the list Customs Model API and it's been denied
because we don't have the correct IM permissions.
But still Amazon Bedrock is still going to send
a CloudTrail event into Amazon CloudTrail
in which we will see that the user B has been denied
the Bedrock list custom models API.
And so therefore, CloudTrail is used to get a list
of all the API calls made into Bedrock
regardless if they've been accepted or not
and it's a good way for you to see which users
are trying to gain access to Bedrock
by using Amazon CloudTrail and analyzing
the denied access for specific APIs.
So that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it
and I hope security makes a lot more sense now in AWS
