21 section introduction

we are going to learn about generative AI
and Amazon Bedrock.
So, actually nowadays, when you hear about AI,
most people mean generative AI.
That's because when ChatGPT came out,
everyone was thinking about AI
and how to interact with it with prompts in the chatbot.
But AI is so much more.
Still, in this section,
we're gonna talk about generative AI,
and Amazon Bedrock is the main service on AWS
that does generative AI.
This is actually one of the main topic of the exam
and also one of the fastest growing AWS service.

---

22. What is Generative AI (GenAI)?

So let's talk about Generative AI,
just before we go into Amazon Bedrock,
which is a service for Gen AI on AWS.
But I first wanna take a step back,
and just understand what is Gen AI?
So Generative AI or Gen AI
is going to be a subset of deep learning,
which is a subset of machine learning,
which is a subset of AI.
So Gen AI, as the name indicates,
is used to generate new data
that is going to be similar
to the data it was trained on.
So what type of data can we train a Gen AI with?
Well, we can train it on text,
on images, on audio,
on code and video, and a lot more,
whatever you think of really.
So the Generative AI model
is going to take a lot of trained data.
Here's an example where we are going to give it
a lot of dogs images.
So we have our trained data set,
which are going to be dogs,
but also we are going to feed them cartoons.
So we're gonna have a bunch of different cartoons
that are going to be hand drawn.
And the generative model is going to see so many
of these trained data
that is going to understand what is a dog,
what is a cartoon,
and then if we ask it,
"Can you generate a cartoon dog?"
It's going to be smart enough to combine the two together
and create a dog that looks like a cartoon.
And that is the whole power of Generative AI,
is that it's able to combine its knowledge
into new and unique ways.
So, we're going to start with a lot of unlabeled data,
and we'll see that means in the later section.
And we're going to train what's called a foundation model.
And foundation model are very broad,
they're very big, very wide,
and they can adapt to different kind of general tasks.
For example, a good foundation model can generate some text,
can summarize some texts,
can extract information,
can generate images,
can become a chatbot,
and can answer any types of questions you have.
So as a whole,
we feed a lot of data into a foundational model,
which has the option to do a lot of different tasks.
So now let's talk about foundation models.
So in order to generate data, as we said,
we need to have a foundation model,
and they're trained on variety of inputs.
But to let you know how big these models are,
usually to train a foundation model, a good one,
it may cost tens of millions of dollars to train,
because it is very computational heavy.
It takes a lot of time to train it, and a lot of data.
So only a few big companies, usually,
are creating their own foundation model.
So here is an example.
So we have GPT-4o,
that is the name of the foundation model behind ChatGPT,
which is the application where you can chat with an AI.
But there is a wide selection of foundation models
from different companies.
So we have OpenAI,
this is the company behind ChatGPT, and GPT-4o for example.
We have Meta, so this is the new company behind Facebook.
We have Amazon, Google, and Anthropic,
and of course a lot more.
But these companies are pretty big,
or they have a lot of money to invest into building
these foundation models.
So some of these models are going to be open source,
for example, they're going to be free.
For example, Meta is working a lot on open source models.
We have Google BERT as well,
which was one of the first models in the Gen AI space,
which also is open source.
But some are under a commercial license,
for example, OpenAI you have to pay to use GPT
at a certain level.
Anthropic and so on.
And so we're going to see
how we can access these models on AWS as well.
So next, after the foundation model,
we have the Large Language Models or LLM.
So LLMs are a type of AI
that is relying again on a foundation model,
but designed to generate coherent human-like text.
So you've been exposed to LLMs a lot before.
One of these is ChatGPT,
the GPT-4 type of foundation model,
an LLM from the company OpenAI.
So I went to ChatGPT and I asked it,
"Are you an LLM?"
And it replied, "Yes, I am a Large Language Model
developed by OpenAI,
and I can understand and generate human-like text
based on the input I receive."
So this was text that looks like a human wrote it,
that was answered by ChatGPT when I asked it,
"Are you an LLM?"
So the way LLM works is that they're trained
on very large amount of text data.
So they're usually very, very, very big models,
very heavy, very computational heavy to use.
We're talking about billions of parameters.
They're trained on a lot of books, articles,
websites, data, or any other type of text data
that is deemed good enough for the LLM training.
So it can perform any wide range of language related tasks
such as translation, summarization,
question answering, content creation, and so on.
So how does it work to use an LLM?
So for this, we give it a prompt.
So the prompt is a question,
a bunch of texts that you're going to send
to the Gen AI model, the LLM,
for example, "What is AWS?"
That's the prompt.
And we'll have a whole section in this course
to understanding how to create a good prompt.
Then the model is going to leverage
all the existing content it has internally,
learned from, and then it's going to look at the prompt
and answer it.
And so when I asked ChatGPT, "What is AWS?"
I get the answer,
"AWS is a comprehensive cloud computings platform
provided by Amazon."
And you can read the rest, it's a long answer.
But you have to know something,
and it's a term you have to learn,
which is that the output, the generated text,
is non-deterministic.
That means that for every user
that is using the same prompt,
you will not necessarily,
and usually not, get the same answer.
So I went a second time and opened a new chat window
and asked, "What is AWS?"
And if you take some time to read this answer,
this was against ChatGPT,
you will see that while the answers are similar,
and they explain the same thing, pretty much,
they are not the same exact answers.
And so this is why it's non-deterministic.
So let's understand why though it is non-deterministic.
So let's take a sentence that is going to be,
I'll put it by a LLM,
and the sentence is,
"After the rain, the streets were."
And what's going to happen is that the LLM
is going to generate a list of potential words
with probabilities.
So what is the next word
that is going to be probably here in this sentence?
So the generative model is going to think,
and it's gonna say, okay, maybe it's wet,
and there's a 0.4 out of one chance
that it's going to be wet.
Or flooded, 0.25.
Slippery, 0.15.
Empty, muddy, clean,
blocked, and so on.
So all these sentences make sense,
but there are probabilities
that means that some of these words are more likely
to be the next word in that sentence.
And an algorithm is going to of course,
compute these probabilities,
and another one is going to select a word from that list
based on the probabilities.
And for example,
we're going to choose the word, flooded.
So it's going to be,
"After the rain, the streets were flooded."
And this is all done by the Gen AI model.
So now we have, "After the rain, the streets were flooded,"
and the same process happens over and over again.
So what is the next word?
Well, it could be and, with, but, from, until, because,
and even a dot.
So "After the rain, the streets were flooded dot,"
and that's the end of the sentence.
So all of these things, again,
have associated probabilities.
And then the next word is going to be selected
based on these probabilities.
So this is why when you ask the AI twice the same prompt,
you may not get the same answers,
it is because the sentence is determined
thanks to statistical methods,
and not with deterministic methods.
So that's for LLMs,
but let's talk about images as well.
So Gen AI for images works in a way that, for example,
you can give it a prompt,
for example, generate a blue sky with white clouds,
and the word "Hello" written in the sky.
And the Gen AI model is going to
actually give you that image
that of course we generated for this course.
We can also have images generated from images.
So here we give an image of someone playing piano,
and we're saying,
"Transform this image in a Japanese anime style."
And the outcome image is going to be something similar,
but now it looks like it comes out of a manga.
And then we can also generate text from images.
So we give it a prompt and say,
"How many apples do you see in the picture?"
And we give it a picture with one orange and an apple.
And then the Gen AI is going to look at the image and say,
"Well, the picture shows one apple
and the other fruit is an orange."
So just to tell you how that works for Gen AI for images,
so you get an idea of how something can generate an image,
there's different methods of course,
but one of the popular one nowadays
is the diffusion model
from a company, for example, named Stable Diffusion,
which is using that model heavily.
So let's take a picture,
and this is a picture of a cat.
And we're going to do what's called
a forward diffusion process.
That means that we're going to add
some noise to the image over time.
So this is with a little bit of noise,
but it's the same image with a bit of noise.
And then we add more noise, we can barely recognize the cat,
and then we add more noise,
and it looks like the cat is entirely gone,
and all we get is noise.
And so we do this for a lot of pictures,
and this is called the forward diffusion process.
And once the algorithm is trained
to take images and create noise out of it,
we do the opposite.
So when we want to generate an image,
we're going to start with noise,
and we're also going to give it a prompt and say,
"We want a cat with a computer,"
and it's called reverse diffusion.
So now that the algorithm has seen how to go
from an image to noise,
it will go from noise to image.
So we give it some noise, randomly,
and then it says, "Okay, I'm going to de-noise it,"
and it's going to start to look like a cat.
And then de-noise it again, and then de-noise it again,
and then we have the cat with a computer.
So imagine this is a new image generated by the AI,
and not the exact same it was trained on, of course.
So this is how Gen AI works for texts, for images.
Just remember the concept of an LLM,
remember the concept that it's non-deterministic.
But now you have a general overview of Gen AI,

---
23. Amazon Bedrock - Overview

So now let's talk about Amazon Bedrock.
So Amazon Bedrock is the one service on AWS
that we're going to use to build generative AI applications.
So it's very powerful,
and it allows you through an interface
to play with many models and configure them
in order to get the outcome you want.
So it's called a fully managed service.
That means that for you, there is no service to manage.
You just use the service on AWS
and Amazon Web Services will make sure
that the service is working for you.
So you're going to keep control of all the data
you're going to use to train the model,
because it all happens within your account.
It never leaves your accounts.
You're going to have a pay-per use pricing model,
but we'll go into the pricing model later on as well.
There's a unified API, so that means that
to access Amazon Bedrock
and the many models behind Amazon Bedrock,
you only have one way of doing it, which is standardized.
You can leverage a wide array of foundation models.
We'll have a look at them in a second.
And on top of it, you have advanced features such as RAG
or LLM agents, and you get security, privacy, governance,
and responsible AI features as well within Amazon Bedrock.
So we're going to spend a bit of time learning about it
and practicing together.
So what type of foundation models do we have access to
on Amazon Bedrock?
Well, many companies have agreements with AWS
to publish their models on Bedrock.
So we have AI21 Labs, we have Cohere,
we have Stability.ai, we have of course Amazon themselves.
We have Anthropic, Meta, Mitral AI.
And of course, over time more foundation models
and more companies behind these models
are going to be added into Amazon Bedrock.
So the way it works that whenever you use
one of these models, there's going to,
Amazon Bedrock is going to make a copy
of the foundation model, the FM,
and it's going to be only available to you.
And then in some cases, you are going to be able
to use your own data to fine tune the model to your needs.
Again, you need to know that none of your data
is going to be used and sent back to one of these providers
to train the foundation model.
What you get happens all within your account
and only within your account.
So it's always helpful to get a diagram
to understand a service.
So I made one for Amazon Bedrock.
So we have at the center of it, foundation models,
and those are the ones we've seen.
And we'll have a look in the hands-on
to see how we can select them.
And we're going to have an interactive playground
that we're going to have a look at it
as well in the next lecture in which us, as a user,
we're going to select a model we want to use.
And then we're going to start asking questions to the model.
For example, "What is the most popular dish in Italy?"
And then maybe the playground is going to respond,
"Pizza and pasta."
On top of it, this is just for the basic interactions,
but we can have also knowledge bases or RAG,
and we'll have a full lecture dedicated to this.
So don't worry if you don't understand it right now.
But the idea is that we're going to be able
to provide more relevant and more accurate responses
by fetching data from external data sources
that may have the answer for us.
Don't worry, we'll have a deep dive
into knowledge bases as well.
We can fine tune our foundation model.
That means that we're going to bring our own data
and we're going to update the foundation model
in our account, again, with our data to make sure
that it's more adapted to our use case and our data.
And finally, to access all of these things
is going to be a unified API.
So it's going to be the same for all models.
That means that all your applications
just talk in one way, to Amazon Bedrock,
and then Amazon Bedrock will do the magic for us.

---
24. Amazon Bedrock - Hands On

Okay, so let's practice using Amazon Bedrock.
So we opened the Bedrock Console,
and we are greeted with the Overview page.
And so the first thing we want to look at
is the list of models that are available for us
on Amazon Bedrock.
So I click on the left-hand side to Model Catalog,
and here we have access
to all the models offered on Amazon Bedrock.
So you can filter by provider,
and you can see the list of all providers over here.
And this list will keep on getting longer and longer.
So, for example, if you want to filter for Amazon,
you would click on Amazon,
and you would get access to all the models by Amazon itself.
If you're looking for models only for doing image,
you can click on Image and get access to these two.
So this filtering allows you
to really find the model that you need.
If you click on the specific model,
for example, this one,
you get access to the model overview,
some details around
the categories of what it can do, and so on.
You can do the model pricing details and so on.
And you could even click on the company itself,
for example, Anthropic,
to get more access to all the models
offered by Anthropic on Amazon Bedrock.
So next we need to test these models.
So let's go on the left-hand side, Under Test,
and we click on Chat Playground.
So you have two options here.
You can use chat or a single prompt.
So let's use a single prompt right now.
And then we select a model.
So the model we're gonna select, for example,
is from Amazon, the Nova Micro.
This is the cheapest model from Amazon.
So now we're going to ask something to the model.
So, for example: what is AWS?
Click on Run.
And we get a response from the model around: what is AWS?
So you can see the response is written right here.
Several bullet points.
We can see the input used four tokens.
This is a way to do the pricing.
And the output was 483 tokens back.
The latency gives you some information
around how long it took
for the model to generate your reply.
And you have access here.
You could configure your prompts here.
This is more advanced, we'll get to see this later on.
But right now we have just used a single prompt
against this model.
So what we can do is that we can swap the model.
For example, we can go to Anthropic
and use, for example, Claude Sonnet 4.5
or whatever version you want really.
And, again, we write: what is AWS?
And run this.
And now we get another answer.
So here we have some formatting.
As you can see, this is bigger text.
This is a title.
We have different way of showing
the information, the benefits, and so on.
So here the input was more tokens,
the output was less tokens, the latency was higher.
So this model behaves differently.
Now, some differences in between models
is that, for example, this one accept attachments.
So I could upload a file
and ask a question directly about this file.
So now I'm going to go back into Amazon Bedrock,
and in here I'm going to do the image and video playgrounds.
So here this is a way
for you to generate images directly from within Bedrock.
So let's choose, for example, Nova Canvas 1.0.
We apply this.
And here we can have different options.
So we can say: what's the image size that we want?
How many images do we want, the color palettes?
Is there an image that we want it to look at? And so on.
So different options.
But of course let's just write something.
So show me a person wearing an AWS backpack.
And we run this.
And now the images are going to be generated by the model
based on the prompt you gave it.
So here we go.
We have three people wearing an AWS backpack.
So the models can be working better in some instance,
for example, the middle image,
and doesn't work great on the last image
because we don't really see the AWS logo.
So it's up to you, but you have to try the model.
So what we've seen here now is that, in Amazon Bedrock,
we're able to discover the models through the model catalog
and by provider and by capability.
And we're able to test these models
in the chat and text playground
or the image and video playground.
And that's it just to get started.
But this is to show you how easy it is
to access models on AWS.
---

25. Amazon Bedrock - Foundation Model (FM)

So now let's talk
about the different options we have
for base foundation models.
So we have to choose based on a lot of different factors.
In the end, it's going to come down to the model types,
the performance requirements you have,
the capabilities of the model,
the constraints you have,
the compliance you need, and so on.
Also, some models may provide you
different levels of customization.
Some models may be smaller, others bigger.
They could be different levels for inference,
so how to basically get an output of the model.
You may have different licensing agreements.
You may have different requirements on context windows,
so how much data you can send it to a foundation model,
as well as latency,
so how fast a model will come back to you with an answer.
You may also have different factors,
such as is the model multimodal?
Which means that it can take a wide combination
of types of inputs,
for example, audio, text, and video together,
and also give you various types of outputs,
for example, again, images, audio, video, text,
but all together at the same time.
So there's no clear answer.
Of course, it's up for you to test,
but there is something called Amazon Titan,
and because this is an AWS certification we're studying for,
I believe Amazon Titan is going to appear at the exam.
So what is Amazon Titan?
Well, it is the high-performing foundation model
directly from AWS.
So you have different levels of Amazon Titan,
but it can do images, text,
and you also have multimodal choices,
all via the same API you have on Amazon Bedrock.
As well, it can be customized with your own data,
so you can fine-tune Amazon Titan,
and that can be very handy.
Also, for example, to make a decision on a model,
usually, the smaller models
are going to be more cost-effective,
but they usually know less things.
So it's a bunch of balancing acts,
really, based on what your business needs is on.
So let's have a look at four models
to see if we can understand a little bit
how our process would go into.
So we have Amazon Titan,
and we're going to compare Amazon Titan Text Express.
We have, and I'll call it Llama, but it may be Yama,
Llama-2, which is some model out of Meta.
We have Claude out of from Entropic,
and then we have Stability AI,
which created something called Stable Diffusion.
So first of all,
the last model is for image generation only.
So if you want just image,
maybe the last model can build for you.
But, like, for the other ones,
you have different kinds of capabilities.
So if we look at features, for example,
well, Amazon Titan can do text,
and it can do it in 100-plus languages.
Llama-2 can do large-scale tasks, dialogue, and in English.
And Claude can have also text generation and also language.
So it comes down to testing
how the model reacts to your inputs.
And one thing that may be very important
is the number of tokens you can have
as an input to the model.
So Amazon, we have 8K tokens.
Llama-2, we have 4K tokens,
and Claude, we have 200K tokens.
So that means that on Claude,
you can send a lot more words into your context windows.
And so Claude will have more memory
and will be able to intake a bigger input,
which may be very important.
For example, you may want to send a big context window
when you're dealing with a big code base
or when you have to read an entire book
and ask questions about that book.
Then maybe Claude is going to be a better fit.
So the use cases really depends on the models,
but to be fair, all these models start to look the same
and have the same kind of capabilities.
They're all converging towards the same thing.
So it's down to mainly testing.
But so Amazon Titan is going to be around content creation,
classification, and education.
Llama-2 is going to be around tech generation
and customer service.
Claude could be for analysis,
forecasting, and document comparison.
This is mainly due to the fact it has higher number of token
as an input,
and Stability AI is going to be for image creation,
for advertising, media, and so on.
And so pricing can be a big factor again.
So here, the pricing is given
for 1,000 tokens given to the model.
So as you can see, Amazon Titan Text Express is very cheap.
It's much cheaper than Llama-2,
and Llama-2 is much cheaper than Claude.
So again, this could be a big one
because, obviously, the more expensive models
may give you better answers,
but sometimes the less expensive models
can still give you good answers,
but they're going to be a lot more cost-effective.
And as well for Stability AI
based on the image you generate,
it may cost you as well some money.
So be conscious
because you can very, very quickly accumulate
a lot of costs with AI.

---
26. Amazon Bedrock - Foundation Model (FM) - Hands On

Okay, so let's go back into our providers
and do a little deeper dive.
So as we can see,
different companies and providers
will offer different models,
and the models will have different capabilities.
So for example, if you choose Anthropic or Amazon
or DeepSeek, or for example, Stability AI,
you have different capabilities.
So you're not supposed to understand
which model can be used for what.
And this is not what the exam will ask you,
but it will ask you to understand
what the model can and cannot perform.
For example, if you're looking at a Claude 3.5 Haiku,
this one, it's a good model for all these things,
for text, mainly for text, right?
But if you look at a model, for example,
you look at the model from Amazon
and you look at Nova Reel,
this model is going to be used
for text to video or image to video.
So this is important because different models
have different capabilities,
but in terms of which model is better,
this is not asked for you from the exam, of course.
Okay, so now let's compare models.
So we can go into Chat and Text playground.
And you're going to open the compare mode on the top right;
and we'll select a model from Amazon,
for example, Nova Micro,
and we'll select a model from Anthropic,
for example, Claude 3.5 Sonnet.
Okay, so you close this configuration window,
and now we have the two models side by side.
And as we can see, first thing is that we can see
that Nova Micro does not support image upload.
So if you upload an image, it's going to be ignored.
So it's very important because, well,
each model will have different capability,
and this one is more pricey
but also has the ability to look at images.
So based on your use case,
you will be able to figure out
which model is the most appropriate.
Now, if you ask the question, for example,
what are the top AWS services,
and you run it,
each model is going to give you a specific answer.
So here is the model Nova Micro
that answered in a specific way,
and it said EC2, S3, RDS, SageMaker,
Lambda, VPC, EKS and so on.
And here we have a list as well on Claude 3.5 Sonnet,
which is a much longer list:
we have 20 items and here we have 11.
So as you can see, the the formatting
and the way the information is presented
is very different based on these models.
And you can also compare the performance.
So this model was seven input tokens,
512 output token, and it took this long;
and this model was 15 input tokens, 393 output token,
and it took this long.
So it took about four times as long.
So when you compare models,
it's important to compare the quality of the outputs
as well as the cost and time it took to get you this output.
If you have something very simple,
such as what is the capital of France,
and you run this, I'm getting too many requests,
but here we have the capital of France is Paris,
and we get a long answer.
And here we'll have another answer,
here we go, with different formatting.
So again, it's up to you to choose
what formatting you like most,
and if you like the extra information or not,
if you want a shorter answer or not.
And of course you can control all of these things.
But it's important for you to see the type of models
and the comparison between them.
We can also have a look at customized models.
To do so, on the left-hand side, click on Custom models.
So here we have different things.
We have three techniques:
we have the reinforcement fine-tuning technique,
we have the supervised fine-tuning, and distillation.
And so for reinforcement learning,
this is for complex multistep reasoning task.
And you're going to have to select a model, add input data,
and also add a reward function.
For supervised fine-tuning.
this is a way to adapt pretrained models
to specific tasks using labeled data
to improve the performance in specific domains.
And distillation is a way for you
to create a smaller, faster model
by using a larger model;
and this larger model is going to train
the specialized student model.
So different options in here, depending on the use case.
But right now let me have a look at the option
for supervised fine-tuning.
So you click on Create
and you click on Supervise fine-tuning job.
And here you have to select a base model
that you wish to customize.
So for example, we can use Nova 2 Lite and apply this.
And then you have to set up the hyperparameters,
so how to train your datasets.
So this is more like machine learning techniques,
so I won't go over them too much.
Then where is your input data? In Amazon S3.
And where is the output data
to store the validation results, metrics,
logs, and training data.
And then finally, you need to enter a service role name.
And this will allow you to create a new custom model
based on everything you have provided.
So that's it.
That's it for custom models.

---
27. Amazon Bedrock - Fine-Tuning a Model

Okay, so now, let's talk about
how to fine-tune a model in Amazon Bedrock.
The idea is that you want to adapt a copy
of a foundation model with your own data,
and fine-tuning is going to change the weights
of the base foundation model.
And so, therefore,
it's going to be better adapted to your use case.
The training data must adhere to a specific format
and be stored in Amazon S3.
So for example, let's take a model like Llama 2.
We add Amazon S3 data,
which is, for example, a prompt and a completion
or just inputs.
And then we're going to get a customized,
fine-tuned Llama 2.
Now, I'm going to walk you, in this lecture,
through different methods we have to fine-tune these models.
Not all modules can be fine-tuned, though,
and the list is available in the documentation.
The first option is called supervised fine-tuning.
It's the easiest to understand:
this improves the performance of a model
on a specific task.
For example, you're going to further train a model
on a particular field or an area of knowledge.
You're going to use labeled examples,
and the exam may ask you about
which method is with labeled examples.
And so, you provide input and output pairs.
For example, the labeled data may be,
"Who is Stephane Maarek?"
And then the answer is that,
"I am the best AWS instructor who dedicates his time
to make you pass your exams with flying colors."
All right, so you may provide many of these prompts
and completions, and that is the input data
that supervised fine-tuning is expecting.
The second option is reinforcement fine-tuning.
So here, we improve our base model
using feedback-based learning.
In this case, we only provide the input data.
So, which prompts do we want to be good at?
And then we define a reward function
that's going to evaluate the output of the model
and judge which responses are good.
So you take a model, you give it a prompt,
and then it's going to generate not once,
but several responses,
for example, 10 or 15 responses.
Then these responses are going to be passed
into an external reward function,
which is going to give a score to each of these responses.
And this data is fed back into the model
so that the model knows what a good
and a bad answer were.
How do we create this reward function?
If it's something that can be objective,
for example, a math computation
or to look if a code is working or, you know, well-written,
you can use Lambda, and you're going to write your own code.
And the code will give the score at the end.
If it's a subjective task,
for example, it's a freeform text reply
and it's more of a human-like type
of subjective analysis that we must do,
we can provide another model
that's going to be called a judge model,
and we provide it with evaluation instructions.
And then the model, as I said,
is going to iteratively learn
from the reward function's output
and will try to achieve higher score over times
to make sure it does what it's supposed to be doing.
Here's an example.
We have a technical customer support chatbot,
and the customer's prompt is,
"My app is running very slow."
Now, we're going to have a chatbot,
so this is a subjective kind of evaluation.
And so, therefore, I'm going to provide a judge model
and we give it instructions.
We want the users to feel empathy,
and we want the chatbot to run diagnostics with the users.
So let's say we pass this prompt,
"My app is running very slowly," to the model.
We're going to get three responses from it.
"Restart the app," or, "That sounds frustrating.
I can help you figure this out.
Before we troubleshoot,
can you tell me when it started
and what you were doing at the time?"
And response three is,
"Please open a support ticket and attach logs A, B, and C."
So, three different kinds of responses, all valid.
But our judge model, based on the instructions
we have given it, will provide a score.
So the first one is helpful but superficial.
So it solves some cases.
There's no diagnosis, no learning, or trust being built,
so it's a score of 5.0.
The second one is on point,
so it's going to get a score of 9.0.
The last one is really not helpful;
it creates friction, so it's going to get a score of 2.0.
Now, the comment is just for us to understand
why we get the score,
but the judge model would just give the score.
And so, these scores and these responses
are going to be fed back into the model
so that it understands what was
and what wasn't a good response.
To summarize, when you have supervised fine-tuning
versus reinforcement fine-tuning,
the idea is that for supervised fine-tuning,
you provide the input and the output,
and the model will learn from this.
And with reinforcement fine-tuning,
you only provide the inputs
and a way to reward and judge these outputs.
Several outputs are generated,
and they're scored by this reward function,
and this is an iterative process.
You also have distillation.
So here, we want to make models faster and smaller.
The reason is usually cost-effectiveness and speed.
So you can get up to 75% less expensive models
than original models.
You're going to get a decrease in accuracy
because usually the bigger the model,
the more accurate it is,
but it's potentially acceptable for the cost reduction
and the speed increase.
So the larger model, called the teacher model,
is going to transfer its knowledge
to a smaller student model.
So you're going to provide the prompts,
the input data,
and then out of all this input data,
you're going to get all the responses
from this larger teacher model.
And these two things are going to be transferred
and passed to the smaller model
so it can learn from the input
and the output of the larger model.
Here you're going to get a smaller model,
but it will behave similarly to the original model.
And here again, the focus is efficiency,
speed, and cost reduction.
Now, when you retrain a foundation model,
it requires a budget.
Usually, supervised fine-tuning is going to be the cheapest
because there are less computations.
It also is most likely necessary
to have a machine learning engineer to perform the task.
You must prepare some data,
you must do the fine-tuning,
and evaluate the models.
Also, running a fine-tuned model is more expensive
than just running a base model normally.
To run a model, you have two options.
The first one is on-demand,
and you're going to pay per token.
The second one is to purchase provisioned throughputs,
and you're going to be billed per month
for the capacity that you have reserved.
So the use cases of fine-tuning is, for example,
to have a chatbot designed with a particular persona
or tone or geared towards a specific purpose.
For example, to do training with more up-to-date information
than what the LLM previously accessed,
or to train with your exclusive data.
For example, historical emails or messages
or records from customer interactions,
or targeted use cases such as categorization
and assessing accuracy.

---
28. Amazon Bedrock - FM Evaluation

So in order to choose a model,
sometimes you may want to evaluate that model
and you may want to bring some level of rigor
when you evaluate that model.
So you can do on Amazon Bedrock
what's called Automatic Evaluation.
So this is to evaluate a model for quality control
and then you're going to give it some tasks.
So you have some built-in task types
such as, for example, exercises on text summarization,
question and answer, text classification,
or open-ended text generation.
And so you're going to choose one of these text types
and then you need to add a prompt datasets
or you can use one
of the built-in, curated prompt datasets
from AWS on Amazon Bedrock.
And then thanks to all this,
scores are going to be calculated automatically.
So let me show you what I mean in a diagram
so you really understand what happens.
So we have benchmark questions
and again, you can bring your own benchmark questions
or you can use the one from AWS.
And then of course, you have questions,
but because you've created benchmark,
you need to have benchmark questions,
as well as benchmark answers,
and the benchmark answers are what would be for you
an ideal answer to your benchmark question.
Then you have the model to evaluate
and you're going to submit all the benchmark questions
into the model that must be evaluated
which is going to of course, generate some answers
and these answers are generated by a GenAI model.
And then of course, we need to compare the benchmark answers
to your generated answers.
So we compare these two
and because we are in an automatic evaluation,
then it's going to be another model, another GenAI model,
called a judge model
which is going to look at the benchmark answer
and generate an answer
and is going to be asked something along the line
of can you tell if these answers are similar or not?
And then it is going to give a grading score
and there are different ways
to calculate this grading score.
For example, the BERTScore or the F1 or so on,
but no need to linger on that specific jargon for now.
So a quick note on benchmark datasets.
So they're very helpful
and a benchmark dataset
is a curated collection of data
designed specifically to evaluate
the performance of a language model
and it can cover many different topics, or complexities,
or even linguistic phenomena.
So why do you use benchmark datasets?
Well, they're very helpful
because you can measure the accuracy of your model,
the speed and efficiency,
and the scalability of your model
because you may throw a lot of requests at it
at the same time.
So some benchmark datasets are designed
to allow you to quickly detect any kind of bias
and potential discrimination against a group of people
that your model may make,
and this is something the exam can ask you.
And so therefore using a benchmark dataset
gives you a very quick, low administrative effort
to evaluate your models for potential bias.
Of course, it is possible for you
to also create your own benchmark datasets
that are going to be specific to your business
if you need to have specific business criteria.
Of course, we can do also human evaluations.
So this is the exact same idea.
We have benchmark questions and benchmark answers,
but then some humans,
employees, for example, from the work team,
could be employees of your company
or it could be subject matter experts
or SME or whatever,
are going to look at the benchmark answers
and the generated answers,
and they're going to say
okay, this looks correct or not correct.
So how can they evaluate?
Well, there's different type of metrics.
There's thumbs up or thumbs down,
there's ranking and so on,
and then it's going to give a grading score again.
So this time there's a human part in it
and you may prefer it.
You can again choose from the built-in task types
or you can create a custom task
because now humans are evaluating it
so you are a little more free.
So there are a few metrics you can use
to evaluate the output of an FM from a generic perspective.
We have the ROUGE, the BLEU, the BERTScore, and perplexity
and I'm going to give you a high level overview,
so we get you understand them
and they should be more than enough for the exam.
So rouge is called
Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation.
So here the purpose of it,
and I think that's what you need to understand
from a exam perspective,
is to evaluate automatic summarization
and machine translation system.
So very dedicated to these two things
and we have a different kind of metrics.
We have ROUGE-N, and N can change
between one, two, three, four usually,
used to measure the number of matching n-grams
between reference and generated text.
So what does that mean?
That means you have a reference text,
this is what you would like the output to be
of your foundation model,
and then whatever text has been generated
by the foundation model.
And ROUGE is going to look at how many n-grams are matching.
So if you take a one-gram,
that means how many words are matching
because a one-gram is just a word.
But if you take two-grams,
that means that it's a combination of two words.
So if you have the apple fell from the tree,
you're going to look at the apple, apple fell,
fell from, from the, and the tree,
and again, you look at how many matches
between your reference text and you generate a task.
If you take a very high gram, for example, 10-grams,
it means you have 10 words
matching exactly in the same order
from one reference to the generated text.
But it's a very easy one to compute
and very easy one to make sense of.
And you have a ROUGE-L
which is going to compute the longest common subsequence
between reference and generated text.
What is the longest sequence of words
that is shared between the two texts?
Which makes a lot of sense,
for example, if you have machine translation systems.
Then you have BLEU.
So ROUGE, by the way, is red in French
and BLEU is blue in French,
so just have some colors.
Blue is Bilingual Evaluation Understudy.
So here this is to evaluate
the quality of generated text, especially for translation.
So this is for translations
and it considers both precision
and is going to penalize as well for too much brevity.
So it's going to look at a combination of n-grams.
The formula is a little bit different,
but if the translation is too short, for example,
it's going to give a bad score.
So it's a slightly more advanced metric
and I'm not going to show the mechanism underneath
because you don't need to know it,
but it's very helpful for translations
and you need to remember it.
But these two things, ROUGE and BLEU,
they just look at words, combination of words,
and they look at the comparison.
But we have something a bit more advanced.
Now because of AI,
we have the BERTScore.
So here we look
for the semantic similarity between generated text.
What does that mean?
That means that you're going to compare
the actual meaning of the text
and see if the meanings are very similar.
So how do we do meaning?
Well, you're going to have a model
and it's going to compare the embeddings of both the texts,
and it can compute the cosine similarity between them.
So embeddings are something we'll see very, very soon
and they're way to look at a bunch of numbers
that represent the text.
And if these numbers are very close between two embeddings,
then that means the texts
are going to be semantically similar.
And so here with the BERTScore,
we're not looking at individual words.
We're looking at the context
and the nuance between the text.
So it's a very good one now
because we have access to AI.
And perplexity is how well the model
will predict the next token,
so lower is better, and that means that if a model
is very confident about the next token,
that means that it will be less perplexed
and therefore more accurate.
So just to give you a diagram.
Here we have a generative AI model
that we trained on clickstream data, card data,
purchase items, and customer feedback
and we're going to generate dynamic product descriptions.
And so from this,
we can use the reference one versus the one generated
to compute the ROUGE or the BLEU metric,
as well as also look at some similarity
in terms of nuance with a BERTScore.
And all these things can be incorporated
back into a feedback loop
to make sure we can retrain the model
and get better outputs
based on the quality of the scores of these metrics.
On top of just having these type of grading
of a foundation model,
you may have business metrics to evaluate a model on
and these are a little bit more difficult
to evaluate, of course,
but it could be user satisfaction.
So you gather user feedback
and you assess the satisfaction within the model response,
so for example, the user satisfaction
of an e-commerce platform,
or you can compute what is the average revenue per user,
and of course, well, if the GenAI app is successful,
you hope that this metric will go up.
Or cross-domain performance, so is the model able to perform
across a varied tasks across different domains?
Conversion rates, so what is the outcome I want?
Do I want to have higher conversion rates?
Again, I would monitor this
and evaluate my model on that.
Or efficiency, what is the efficiency of the model?
How much does it cost me?
Is it efficient in competition,
in resource utilization, and so on?
So that's it for evaluating a foundation model.

---
29. Amazon Bedrock - FM Evaluation - Hands On

So now let's have a look at model evaluation.
And, for this, on the bottom-left,
under Inference and Assessment,
you will find Evaluations.
Collapse this panel.
And so, we have two kinds of evaluation for the models,
we have the Automatic kind and the Human kind.
And within Automatic, we have two approaches,
we have the Programmatic
to just have a model and metrics we're going to select,
or Model as a judge
where a model will actually be the judge
of the output itself,
so it's using models to judge models.
And the human,
well, you can either get the AWS Managed work team
to evaluate the responses from up to two models for you,
or you can Bring your own team
to do the exact same approach.
So let's see how we can create a model evaluation.
So we'll create an Automatic Programmatic evaluation.
And, here, the important thing is that we select a model,
for example, we want to evaluate this model,
and then we evaluate a task type,
so do we want to have a look at General text generation
or Text summarization or Q&amp;A or whatever.
So once you select a General task,
a task type, for example, General task generation,
you have several metrics that you can judge.
Here we have Toxicity,
here we have Accuracy, and here we have Robustness.
And so, here, we can choose a prompt dataset
that our model right here is going to be evaluated against.
And then some metrics around Toxicity
are going to be computed automatically.
So we can use either the built-in datasets
or bring our own prompt dataset right here.
And so, we can generate metrics automatically
for all these things.
And then, finally,
all the results are going to be stored in Amazon S3,
and you'll need a permission, of course,
to store these results in Amazon S3.
So that's one way of doing things.
If you're trying to do it with Model as a judge,
first we need to choose a model
that will perform the evaluation.
So, as you can see, we have less models available to us.
So, for example, we can choose Claude 3.5 Sonnet
to do and to be the evaluator model,
the model that's going to generate
the evaluation metrics itself,
and then what we want to evaluate.
So either we want to have a look at the Bedrock models,
and you can choose whatever model,
just like before you had for you to perform your evaluation,
or, if you wanted to,
you can bring your own inference responses from a model
that lives outside of Bedrock,
and just want to make sure that the evaluator model
is going to give you his results, metric results,
on your model that sits outside of Bedrock.
So, for example, say you want to use Nova Pro,
that's the one we're going to evaluate.
And then we have the metrics we want to evaluate for.
So each metrics will have different costs,
for example, Helpfulness, or Faithfulness,
or stuff like this.
And then, again, Datasets and Permissions.
And then, this time, so as we said,
a model is going to evaluate the results of another model,
and that's the particularity of this one,
but I like it,
because some things can be judged only by a human-touch,
and this is why now we have the Human factor.
So this is using the human
to be the judge of the models themselves.
So we can create this one, for example,
just to see the option.
So we have a managed team
that's going to start the evaluation for us.
So we need to provide a lot of number,
a lot of information, actually.
So I'm going to cancel this
and just do Bring your own workforce.
And so, here, what do we want to do?
We want to evaluate, again, one of these models,
so Nova Pro,
and what task you want to evaluate?
And, actually, before I go here,
you can evaluate up to two models.
So you can have this model, Nova Pro, for example,
you want to compare it to Claude 3.5 Sonnet,
and that's it.
So you have two models now that are gonna be compared
as well as part of this evaluation.
And then a Task type.
So, again, General, Text summarization, et cetera,
or a Custom task, if you wanted to.
And for each of these tasks,
what metrics do you want to evaluate?
So it's the same inputs as before,
but this time, real humans.
This is gonna be your humans, your work team,
but it could be also a work team by AWS
is going to be the one saying,
"Well, this model or that model is performing better,
and this is how much I rate this model's performance.
So that's it.
You've seen how you can evaluate a model in Amazon Bedrock.

---
30. Amazon Bedrock - RAG & Knowledge Base

So now let's talk about
RAG and Knowledge Bases.
So what is RAG?
RAG is Retrieval-Augmented Generation.
Behind this very fancy name,
there is a very simple concept.
This allows your foundation model
to reference a data source from outside
of its training data
without being fine tuned.
So how does that work?
So we have a knowledge base
and it's being built and managed by Amazon Bedrock.
For this, it must rely on a data source.
For example, Amazon S3.
So your data is going to be an Amazon S3,
and then automatically Bedrock is going to do some magic.
We'll see how that works exactly,
but it's going to build a knowledge base.
And then a user is going to ask a question
to your foundation model saying,
who is the product manager for John?
So that's probably something related to his company.
And of course the foundation model
does not know anything about John
because John is a very specific query
for my company and my own data.
So there's going to be something called a search,
and this information is going to be searched
in the knowledge base, automatically.
Of course, this is all happening behind the scene.
But this knowledge base is backed by something called
a vector database
and to create the data in the vector database,
again, bedrock takes care of everything,
it's called creating vector Embeddings.
And I will show you how that works later on.
But basically thanks to this vector database,
then we're able to retrieve the relevant information
out of this knowledge base.
And for example, we get some text back from this
saying that we have some information about John,
such as we have some support contacts.
We have a product manager, which is Jessie Smith.
We have an engineer, which is Sara Ronald.
And so all this is going to go as an augmented prompt.
And so it's going to be the original query
as well as the text that has been retrieved
that are going to be passed together
into the actual foundation model.
And the foundation model
is going to look at this augmented prompt
and generate a response saying,
hey, it looks like Jessie Smith
is the product manager for John.
And it's what it's called retrieval-augmented generation.
Retrieval, because we retrieve the data
outside of the foundation model
and it's augmented generation
because we augment the prompt
with that external data that has been retrieved.
So hence the name RAG.
And so RAG in AWS Amazon Bedrock
is going to be a knowledge base.
So this is very helpful
when you need to have data that needs to be fed,
and that is very up to date, that is in real time,
and that needs to be fed into the foundation model.
So how does that work?
Well, here we have an example.
Give me talking points for benefits of air travel.
As you can see,
one of these talking points has a little one on it
and a link to air travel.pdf
and that PDF may be an Amazon S3.
So this is an example where the RAG
and the knowledge base has been used
to give an answer to a specific prompt.
So for the RAG Vector Databases, what options do we have?
Well, to store our index,
we have a vector database,
and we can have different kinds.
We can have OpenSearch Service, Aurora,
Neptune Analytics, and S3 Vectors.
Those are AWS specific options.
And then we can have external options such as MongoDB,
as well as Redis and Pinecone.
And these are options if you want to integrate
with external services.
Next, your data is going to be in Amazon S3
and it's going to be chunked into different parts.
And these parts are going to be passed through
what's called an embeddings model.
And this model is going to be powered by
either Amazon Titan or Cohere or other options.
And these embeddings are going to be generated
and stored onto your vector database.
And this is why choosing a vector database
is a matter of what type of queries and documents you have
and how you want to optimize your queries.
But this is a bit too advanced.
You just need to know the existence
of these embeddings model
to create these embeddings
and the existence of a database.
Still the exam may ask you to choose
what type of database to choose for your vector database.
It's just a high level.
But if you want to use OpenSearch Service,
then you must use the Amazon OpenSearch Service on AWS.
You have options for serverless and managed clusters.
It gives you search and analytics database in real time
for similar queries.
You can store millions of vector embeddings.
It's a very scalable index management,
and you get very fast nearest neighbor,
KNN search capability.
This makes it a great production way to run a RAG on AWS.
If you wanted original database,
you can use Amazon or a PostgreSQL.
If you wanted to have a graph analytics
and graph based RAG called GraphRAG solution,
then you must use Amazon Neptune Analytics.
And finally, if you wanted a very cost effective
and durable storage
with sub-second query performance,
then you would use Amazon S3 vectors.
And as you can see,
these sources are different based on their capabilities.
Just remember them at a high level for the exam
and you'll be good to go.
So what kind of data sources can we use in Amazon Bedrock?
Well, we have Amazon S3,
which is a place where you can put a lot of files
in the cloud directory.
Confluence, Microsoft SharePoint, Salesforce,
as well as webpages.
So it could be your website,
it could be your social media feed, et cetera, et cetera,
so anything in the web.
And I'm pretty sure that Amazon Bedrock
will add more sources over time.
But from an exam perspective,
I think remembering Amazon is free
and maybe these ones should be enough.
And of course, if from an exam perspective,
you need to know about more data sources,
I will of course include it in this slide.
So what are the use cases now for Amazon Bedrock
where you can build a customer service chatbot
where the knowledge base is going to be your products,
your features, your specifications, troubleshooting guides,
and frequently asked questions.
And so therefore, your RAG application can be the chatbot
that will answer customer queries
and look up in this knowledge base.
It could be for legal research and analysis
where the knowledge base is going to be
laws and regulations, case precedents, legal opinions
and expert analysis
and this time we can have a chatbot
that is going to have relevant information
anytime we have a specific legal query.
And we can have also a healthcare question answering.
So again, the knowledge base can be diseases, treatments,
clinical guidelines, research papers,
and previous patient data.
And the application could be a chatbot
that will answer complex medical queries.
So RAG opens up a lot of possibilities
for doing gen AI on AWS.

---

31. Amazon Bedrock - RAG & Knowledge Base - Hands On

Okay, so we're going
to practice Knowledge Bases in RAG.
And so for this,
you go to the left hand side under builder tools
and you will find Knowledge Bases.
So here we have the option to create Knowledge Base,
and that will take a lot of time.
But to get the idea behind how a Knowledge Base is working,
we're going to do here a chat with your document.
And the idea is that we're going to upload document
and chat with it.
And we can imagine this document
would be in a vector database
and then our model would do right against it.
So,
here we're going to have an Anthropic Model
of 3.5 Sonnets,
and,
we have the parameters here that we can set,
but we're not gonna touch anything.
Everything is set up as it should.
And here the important part
is the chat prompt templates.
So we can edit to see what it is.
So it says," you are a question answering agent,
I will provide you with a set of search results
and the user will provide you with a question,
and your job is to answer the user's question
using only the information from the search results.
And if there's no result in it,
please state that you cannot find the answer
to the question."
So, here the important thing is that,
search results are going to be performed
from within our document that we're going to upload
and based on the query of the user.
And then,
this combined with our question
is going to generate outputs.
So this is the whole idea behind it, right.
Number one is to find the information
within document with a search.
And number two is to pass that information
from the search to a model
that will be generating the answer.
So we're going to add data from our computer,
and you can download it from the code
at the beginning of the course.
Just look again in section one and two,
or two.
And under Bedrock,
you will click on Evolution of the Internet Detailed.
And this is just a document
that contains some information on the internet
that we're going to chat with.
So we're good here,
we're happy with it.
Streaming preference, we're all good.
And guardrails,
we're all good as well.
So let's go ahead.
And for this,
on the right hand side, here we go, we can say,
who and when invented
the World Wide Web?
And so here we get an answer directly
from the model.
And it says when it was invented and by whom,
and we have sources.
And so here, if we click on this,
we have a source directly coming from our document,
and here a source coming directly from our document.
So you can click on show details
to really have a look at it.
And so source chunk one is coming from here,
from our document.
And source chunk two is coming from here,
from our document.
And so this is pretty cool because well,
all this information is coming from our document
and then this was passed to our model
and our model generated this summarizing answer as a result.
We can say, for example,
what is the future of AI?
And we're getting too many requests,
so I need to wait a little bit.
And so here again,
we have this information right here,
and we can click on show details
to view the sources.
And remember from our first prompt
if we have something...
How to make guacamole?
Well, if you ask a question that has nothing to do
with the documents,
we need to just wait a little bit,
then our model should not respond
because it doesn't have the information necessary.
And as we can see here,
we get an apology from the model
because it cannot find guacamole
in the search results that were provided.
So that's it for this lecture,
we've seen how RAG is working
and how Knowledge Base is working.

---

32. Amazon Bedrock - RAG & Knowledge Base - Complete Setup - Hands On

So here we go.
We're going to set up RAG
and a knowledge base on Amazon Bedrock.
Now this hands-on is a bit more complicated
than the other one.
So you've learned what you need
to know from a knowledge base perspective.
This is just technical stuff if you are very curious
into how things works.
So to create a knowledge base, we need
to move away from what's called a root user.
This is a root user right now we're connected to,
we just see the account ID and we go into an IAM user.
So you type IAM in your services
and then you go to the IAM console
and you're going to go under users
and you're going to create a user.
The username is whatever you want.
I'm going to name it Stephane,
and I'm going to provide user access
to the AWS management console.
Now I know
that the recommended user type is here in identity center.
This is something we'll see later on.
Right now I wanna make it super simple.
So I want to just create an IAM user
and then you can use a custom password that you must know,
and I'm going to just enter a password that I know.
So here I go,
and I'm good to go.
Okay, and then we can untick this.
I don't need to create a new password at login.
Then let's click on next.
And we're going to attach policies directly.
And the one we're looking for is administrator access.
So we're going to give full admin power to this user.
Then we click on next and then create user.
And our user is successfully created.
Now we have an access to a console sign-in URL
with a username and our password.
So let's go into the sign-in URL right now and press enter.
And now we have this new sign-in page.
So the account ID we'll leave as is,
the username is whatever you had before,
and then the password is your actual password.
And then click on sign in.
So here we go, now I am into the console.
And I know that I am logged in using the IAM user
because well it says IAM user Stefan,
and there is my account ID.
So now we're ready to go back into Amazon Bedrock
and then get started.
Go on the left hand side onto knowledge bases
and create a knowledge base.
So the knowledge base name we'll just leave it as is.
The IAM permissions,
we're going to select create and use a new service role.
So we leave the defaults, then we choose Amazon S3,
and then we can see actually the options we have.
So we have Amazon S3,
but we can also have other data sources
such as a web crawler to extract data from the webpage.
Or it could be third party data sources such as Confluence,
where you can store your information
or Salesforce for your own CRM
or SharePoint to have a look at your documents hosted
on SharePoint.
But we'll use Amazon S3 right now in our little PDF file.
Let's click on next.
And next we need to create a data source.
So it's going to be Amazon S3 on this account.
And we need to select an S3 bucket.
So now let's go into Amazon S3
and actually create an S3 bucket.
So we're going to create a bucket
and we need to make sure we are in US East one still.
And it's a general purpose type of bucket,
and you just have to give it a name.
So my demo bucket knowledge base Stephane,
and you see this name is very long
and complicated because if you just enter a name
that is already taken, for example test,
and then you click on create buckets,
you're going to get an error saying,
hey, this bucket name already exists.
So the bucket name doesn't exist in my account,
but it exists in someone else's account.
And so this is a problem on Amazon S3, the bucket name needs
to be unique and therefore you need to enter a unique name.
So if you copy this entire bucket name, it's not going
to work because I have created this bucket myself.
So choose a name that is going to be unique to you.
Then you scroll all the way down, we don't need any
of these options and we create this bucket.
So now my bucket is created
and I'm going to just click on it
and within it, this is where we can upload objects.
So let's upload a first object is going to be our evolution
of the internet detailed and click on upload.
So it's a very simple interface
to upload files onto the cloud.
And now if we look at it in our bucket,
we have one object, which is our PDF.
So this is great, and now I just go into,
back into Amazon Bedrock and we need to select an S3 URI.
So we browse Amazon S3, we refresh this, doesn't work, okay,
so let's cancel this, refresh
and recreate the knowledge base.
We scroll down, click on next, and then click on browse S3.
And here we go, now we can select this Amazon S3 bucket.
So we choose it and now this is filled.
So next we go click on next,
we need to select an embeddings model.
So this is how to convert your data into a vector.
So different options here,
but I'm just going to take the one from Amazon,
this Titan Text Embeddings V2,
and we don't touch anything on the vector dimension.
Now for the vector database.
So we have several options.
If you wanted to go all the way free,
then you would select Pinecone
because Pinecone, if you go on the website of Pinecone,
so pinecone.io, and you go on the pricing,
you see that there is a free tier.
So you can start free
and you can have up to two gigabytes of storage
and then write units and read units all the way,
you're good.
So this is a setup I'm not going to do
because I'm trying to demonstrate the AWS services
of course, but if you wanted to stay free,
I would recommend Pinecone.
Now I'm going to pay some money for what I'm going
to do right now, but I'm going to do a quick create
with a new vector store
because this is going to use Amazon OpenSearch Serverless,
which is an AWS service,
and something they most likely want you to use.
Other services on AWS for example is Amazon Aurora.
But so we're going to do a quick create
of a new vector store and actually you can see
that even though they say it's cost efficient,
I really don't believe it.
So for Amazon OpenSearch Serverless pricing, it's used
by computing OCU and you have a minimum billable
of two OCUs and OCUs are quite expensive,
so you get $0.24 per OCU per hour,
which is around $172 per month.
So it's quite expensive,
and then you also pay for the storage.
And so what I wanna say is that we are going
to be conscious in this course
and make sure that we delete OpenSearch Service
right after using it.
So we'll pay a minimal amount
if you do the hands-on with me.
Again, good for you to know.
And if you follow along and you create a vector store
with me on Amazon OpenSearch Serverless,
you are going to pay some money.
So please don't forget to delete things.
Otherwise this is going to be a very sad moment.
Okay, so let's click on create knowledge base
and now we're good to go.
Again, you will get an error
if you're not using an IAM user.
So this was very important to do.
So this will take a little bit of time
and I'm going to pause the video until we are done.
Okay, so my knowledge base is now created
and I can click on go to data sources to have a look at it.
So it says that yes, my data source is available
and then what I'm going to do is click on it
and then sync it to perform a synchronization of the data
that I have in my S3 bucket to my database in OpenSearch.
So as you can see here, I can click on OpenSearch service
and have a look at it and confirm
that on the left hand side under dashboard I have access
to my collection, which is my Bedrock Knowledge Base.
So it's pretty cool.
So I wanna show you a little bit how this works.
This is obviously way advanced knowledge,
but I'm always curious.
So if you click on this collection,
you can see right here that we have access to our endpoint
and we have an OpenSearch dashboard URL that we can look at
to look at what's within our collection.
And we can have a look as well at indexes to see
that an index was created.
And there is one vector with six documents.
So if we go into OpenSearch Dashboards,
and here we are so we can visualize our data.
So to do it, we go on the left hand side under discover,
and then you have index pattern.
So we click on create index pattern,
and then we paste this name
of the index in here, click on next step,
and then create index pattern.
This is to, we can tell OpenSearch Dashboards to look
for our data, and here we can see all the fields
that were created automatically by Amazon Bedrock.
So this is very handy.
Now let's go in here and go here.
We click on dashboards, we go, sorry, into discover.
And then we can have a look here into our knowledge base.
And here we have access to the actual vectors.
So this is some information around what was the text chunk
of my PDF that is in here, what is the ID?
And then what is the actual Bedrock knowledge base vector?
And so all these numbers were created
by the embeddings model.
So this is advanced, I know,
but I wanna show you the deep down things of how it works.
Basically my document was chunked,
and then for each chunk a vector was created.
And so you have about one, two, three, four, five,
six chunks right now for my documents.
But by the way, now I can go into Amazon Bedrock
and I can start testing my knowledge base.
So let's configure a model.
We're going to take, for example, again,
anthropic haiku or sonnet, let's apply it, perfect.
And here we're gonna say, who invented the worldwide web,
click on run.
And then is going to retrieve and generate a response.
As you can see, we have pretty much
the same answer as before.
And in terms of sources, we can see that now we have a link
to evolution of the internet detailed point PDF.
And if I click on it, this takes me directly into Amazon S3
into my PDF file that I have uploaded.
So it's quite cool because now we have set up a full RAG
and if you wanted to set up properly,
you would add more documents
of course in your Amazon S3 bucket,
and then you would click on the sync button.
So here we've practiced how to use RAG,
so I'm going to clean it up.
And to do so, I delete the knowledge base.
So click on delete, and it's going
to delete the knowledge base,
but this doesn't delete your OpenSearch database.
So let's wait for this to be done.
And next, so this was very quick, and next,
let's go into OpenSearch Service.
And under here for this collection,
you're going to delete it.
Otherwise this will incur some cost in the long run.
So that's it, we've practiced creating
an OpenSearch serverless database.
We have created a knowledge base,
we've uploaded some files onto Amazon S3.
You can keep your S3 bucket running, this is fine.
This is not going to cost you anything.
And then we were able to demonstrate
how knowledge bases and RAG works.
So I'm very excited, this was a long hands-on
and very advanced I know, but good to see.

---

33. More GenAI Concepts

So now that we've seen Gen AI
and how to use it,
let's look at bigger concepts around Gen AI.
More theoretical, but very important to understand,
and the exam can ask you a few things about it.
So first is the process of tokenization.
It's the idea of converting raw text
into a sequence of tokens.
What does that mean? Well, here is a sentence.
"Wow, learning AWS with Stephane Maarek is immensely fun,"
and here, we have different ways
of converting these words into tokens.
So we can do word-based tokenization,
and the text is going to be split into individual words,
or we can have subword tokenization,
and some words sometimes can be split, too,
which is very helpful for long words,
and for the model to have less number of tokens,
because some tokens, for example,
you say unacceptable is acceptable
with U-N in the beginning, and so therefore,
you just need to understand that un is a negative
and acceptable is the token acceptable.
Hopefully, that makes sense, so you can experiment
at OpenAI website called Tokenizer, and I put the sentence,
"Wow, learning with Stephane is immensely fun!"
As you can see, the "wow" was a token.
The comma itself is a token as well.
"Learning AWS with Steph," and so Stephane was split in two,
because probably Steph and Stephane are very close.
Steph is just my diminutive,
and ane is probably just the French way of having my name,
so it was split.
Maarek, right now, aare is being split as well,
probably an error, but the model will figure this out
as it goes, and then "is immensely fun,"
all of these are tokens, and as well,
the exclamation point is also a token.
So tokenization is converting these words into tokens,
because now each token has an ID,
and it's much more easier to deal with ID
than to deal with the raw text itself.
So the context, we know is super important.
This is the number of tokens
that an LLM can consider when generating text,
so different models have different context windows,
and so the larger the context window,
the more information and coherence.
And so it's kind of a race now
to have the greatest context window,
because the more context window you have,
the more information you can feed to your gen AI model.
So if you look at GPT 4 Turbo, it's 128,000 tokens.
Claude 2.1, 200,000 tokens,
but for example, Google Gemini 1.5 Pro has 1 million tokens,
and up to 10 million token
in the context window in research.
And that means that for 1 million token,
you can have a one-hour video fed to your model
or 11 hours of audio or over 30,000 lines of code
or 700,000 words.
So this is very important, because this really tells us
that it's a very important factor.
Now, when you have a large context window,
obviously, you're going to get more benefit out of it,
but it will require more memory and more processing power,
of course, and therefore, it may cost a little more.
So when you consider a model, the context window
is going to be probably the first factor to consider,
making sure that it fits your use case.
Next, we have the concept of embeddings.
So we've seen that a little bit with RAG,
but now we're gonna go deep into how that works.
So the idea is that you wanna create a vector,
and a vector is an array of numerical values,
so many numerical values, out of text, images, or audio.
So for example, let's put some text,
and we have, "the cat sat on the mat."
So first, we're going to do tokenization,
so each word in this example is going to be extracted,
"the cat sat on the mat,"
and then because we have tokenization,
every word is going to be converted into a token ID.
It's just a dictionary that says that the word "the"
is 865 and so on.
Next we're going to have an embeddings model,
so this is where we're going to create a vector
for each token, so as you can see here, the word "cats,"
the token "cats," if I may say, is going to be converted
to a vector of many values here, 0.025, and so on,
and the word "the" is going to have its own vector,
and the vectors can be very big.
It could be 100 values if we wanted to,
and all these vectors are going to be stored
in a vector database.
So why do we convert these tokens into vectors?
Well, when we have vectors with a very high dimensionality,
we can actually encode many features for one input token,
so we can have the meaning of the word,
we can have the synthetic role,
the sentiment, if it's a positive or negative word,
and so much more, and so the model is able
to capture a lot of information about the word
just by storing it into a high-dimensionality vector,
and this is what's used for vector databases and RAG.
Finally, because embeddings model can be easily searchable,
thanks to nearest neighbor capability in vector databases,
it is a very good way to use an embeddings model
to power a search application,
and that is something that can come up in the exam.
So I will do my best to show you this,
so words that have a semantic relationship,
that means they're similar, will have similar embeddings.
So if we take the token dog, puppy, cat, and houses,
and we make a vector, say, with 100 dimension in them,
so we have 100 numerical values
for each and every word or token.
And so of course, for us, it's very difficult as humans
to visualize 100 dimensions.
We're very good at two dimensions, it's a sheet of paper.
Three dimensions, we're very good at
because we can visualize things with our eyes
in three dimensions, but 100 dimensions is very difficult,
and so to visualize these things,
sometimes we do what's called dimensionality reduction,
so we reduce these 100 dimensions,
for example, to two or three dimensions.
So if we did it, for example,
we would see something like this.
And in this two-dimension diagram,
we see that it looks like a puppy and a dog are related,
yes, because a puppy is a small dog,
and it looks like the cat is not too far away from a dog.
Well, that's because it's an animal,
but house is very different,
so it's going to be far away on that diagram.
So of course, with two dimensions,
we don't capture any kind of subtleness,
but when we have 100 dimensions,
we can really say which words relate to each other and why.
Another way to visualize a high-dimension vector
is to use colors, so for example, we use color embedding
and say each combination of numbers is gonna make a color,
and visually, we can see, for example,
in this very simplified one, that the puppy and the dog,
they're very similar because they're very similar colors,
but house is very different.
And so intuitively, we can say that, yes,
there is a semantic relationship between tokens
with similar embeddings, and that's why we use them,
and that's why, once we have them in a vector database,
we can then do a similarity search on the vector database,
so we give a dog and automatically,
we'll be able to pull out all the tokens
that have a similar embedding as the dog, and that's it.
So that's it for more concepts on Gen AI,
but they appear in the exam,
so hopefully now you understand them.

---

34. Amazon Bedrock - GuardRails

Now let's talk about Guardrails
in Amazon Bedrock.
Guardrails allow you to control the interaction
between your users and your Foundation Models.
You can set up Guardrails to filter
undesirable and harmful content.
For example, say we have Amazon Bedrock
and we set up a Guardrail to block any kind of food recipes,
and the user is using your model
and saying," Hey, suggest me something to cook tonight."
Then Amazon Bedrock will respond,
"Sorry, this is a restricted topic."
This is because we have set up a Guardrail
to block this topic.
Of course, maybe you don't wanna block food recipes,
but something a bit more relevant to your business.
You can al use Guardrails
to remove any personally identifiable information
or PII, to make sure that your users are safe.
You can also enhance privacy,
and you can reduce hallucinations.
We'll see what hallucinations are later on this course.
But the idea is that you wanna make sure
that the answers are safe and sound
and that they're not just invented off the block.
Guardrails can help you with that.
You can also create multiple Guardrails
and multiple level of Guardrails.
And you can also monitor and analyze all the user inputs
that will violate the Guardrails to make sure
that you have set the Guardrails up properly.
That's it, just a short intro to the Guardrail.

---

35. Amazon Bedrock - GuardRails - Hands On

So now let's have a look at guardrails.
So guardrails are a way for you to filter things
based on your requirements to have a more responsible AI.
So let's create a guardrail and see the options we have.
So this is my demo guardrail,
and we have here a message for blocked prompt.
So in case the prompt is blocked,
what do you want to return to your user?
Here, it's going to be,
"sorry, the model cannot answer this question."
And this could apply as well,
the same message for responses, or you can customize it.
Click on next
and now we have options to configure a lot of things.
So we could configure content filters, denied topics,
word filters, sensitive information filters,
and add contextual ground checking,
so a lot of different options.
So let's configure one of them
just so we understand how it works
and look at the other categories.
So here, for example, let's filter harmful categories.
So here, for example, we have a filter strength
to increase the likelihood of filtering harmful content
in a given category.
So for example, no hate, no insults, no sexual, no violence,
and no misconduct.
Let's click on next.
What topics do we want to deny?
So here I'm going to call it recipes.
And the definition of a topic
is what you want the foundation model
to understand what the topic is.
So let's say, for example, the topic is food recipes
are instructions on how to cook specific dishes.
And we can also add sample phrases
if we really wanted to allow the AI to understand
the type of prompts we're trying to block,
but no need for it so let's confirm this.
So we have recipes, and then click on next.
So do we want to have profanity filter?
For example, if someone is using profane words.
Add the custom words and phrases to be blocked
so you can upload them directly.
And then do you want to remove
any type of personally identifiable information, PII?
So we can say, "yes, I wanna add a new PII"
and for example, remove any type of email.
So we'll say mask and to remove any type of email.
And then Regex pattern. So any type of information
that follows a specific pattern should be removed as well.
And then we have contextual grounding.
So this is to make sure that you reduce the hallucination.
So when the model thinks that it's saying something,
it think it's true, but it's actually not true.
So I won't go into the settings here,
but it's called grounding and relevance.
So let's create it and create this guardrail.
So now the guardrail is created and we can test it.
So we can select a model.
For example, let's choose Anthropic and Sonnet.
And then we say here,
"please suggest me something to cook tonight.
I love Indian food."
And let's click on run.
And here, as you can see, it's a blocked topic
because we said no food recipes.
And the answer we get is,
"sorry, the model cannot answer this question."
Please draft an email for me, include my email
stephane@example.com
and also include the other person's email
john@example.com.
Make sure we discuss
important topics for our next business meeting.
So let's click on run.
And now we are prompting the model
to draft us an actual email.
This is great, but what I expect is for my emails
to be masked because this is actual information.
So as you can see here, the model response
included a to stephane@example.com and cc john@example.com
with the relevant email.
So here it discusses a lot of things.
This is great, but the final response
has been going through the guardrail.
And as you can see, the email has been masked
because this was personally identifiable information,
but the rest is here.
So this is great.
We've seen how this guardrail works
and this was a good demo.
And I just wanna show you another way to test the guardrail.
So if you go into text and choose, for example,
again, we're going to choose Anthropic, Sonnet, apply it.
On the bottom here,
we can choose a guardrail and apply the demo guardrail.
And actually you can apply many guardrails at a time
if you wanted to stack them up.
So that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it.
You can leave this guardrail on,
it's not going to cost you any money,

---

36. Amazon Bedrock - Agents

So now let's talk about
Amazon Bedrock Agents.
So the agent is going to be a very smart thing
that is going to act a little bit like a human.
The idea is that instead of just asking questions
to a model, now the model is going to be able
to start thinking a little bit
and to perform various multi-step tasks.
And these tasks may have an impact on our own databases
or our own infrastructure.
So the agent can actually create infrastructure,
it can deploy applications,
and can do operations on our systems.
So here now, the agent doesn't just provide us information.
It also starts to think and act.
So for example, it's going to look at tasks,
and then it's going to perform the task in the correct order
and ensure that the correct information is passed
within the task
even if we haven't programmed the agent to do so.
So what we do is that we are going to create
what's called action groups,
and the agents are going to be configured
to understand what these action groups do
and what they mean.
And then automatically the agent will be able to integrate
with other systems, services, databases, and API
to exchange data or to initiate action.
And also if you need to get some information
out of your systems in terms of unlabeled data,
it can look at RAG
to retrieve the information when necessary.
So that sounds a little bit magical,
but I will show you exactly how that works.
So in Amazon Bedrock, you would go and create an agent
and you are defining what the agent is responsible for.
So for example, you are an agent responsible
for accessing purchase history for our customers
as well as recommendations into what they can purchase next.
And you are responsible for placing new orders.
So the agent knows that it can do all these things.
So if the user is asking something for the agent
or the model to do one of these things, Bedrock is smart.
It's gonna say, well, this agent probably
is going to be responsible for these actions.
Then the agent knows about a few action groups.
So for example, we have defined an API,
it's a way to interface with our system,
and we have, for example, defined get recent purchases
or get recommended purchases or get purchase details
and then a specific purchase ID.
So all these things are known to the agent
in terms of what is the expected input for these APIs,
and what do these APIs do,
what is the documentation around it?
And all this is provided thanks to an open API schema.
And so when done well the agent can invoke these
and behind the scenes, of course,
interact with our backend systems,
for example, make changes to our database.
The other way to set up an action group
is to use Lambda functions.
So Lambda functions are a way to run
a little bit of code in AWS
without provisioning infrastructure.
So the Lambda functions again can be used to be created
and place an order through a Lambda function.
And so it could use the same database or a new database.
But the idea is that I wanted to show here
that the agent can interact either with an external API
or with Lambda functions on your AWS accounts.
And finally it has access to knowledge bases
that we define, of course.
And so for example, say we have a knowledge base
around our company shipping policy
and return policy, et cetera, et cetera.
So we could those.
And so if the user is asking something
about the return policy for an order it's about to do,
the agent is smart enough to also provide that to the user.
So the agents are very smart, and they know what to access
and then automatically will know how to do it.
So how does that work behind the scenes?
Well, say we have a task,
and we give this task to a Bedrock agent.
Now the agent is going to look at the prompt.
He's going to look at all the conversation history,
look at all the actions available,
as well as the knowledge bases.
What are these structures and what is the task?
And it's going to take all this information together
and send it to a Generative AI model
backed by Amazon Bedrock and say, please tell me
how you would proceed to perform these actions
given all this information.
So it's using the chain of thought.
Chain of thought means that the output of the Bedrock model
is going to be a list of steps.
So step one, you need to do this.
Step two, do this,
step three, do this, and step N, last step, do that.
And so the steps are going to be executed by the agent,
and say, first one, call an API.
Call on this action group and get the results.
Step two, do it again.
Step three, call another API, et cetera, et cetera.
Maybe it could be a search into a knowledge base,
and they get the results and so on.
But so the agent is going to work
and do all these things for us
thanks to the steps that were generated
by the Bedrock model, which is amazing.
And then the final result is return to the Bedrock agent.
The Bedrock agent then sends the tasks
and the results to another Bedrock model.
And the Bedrock model is going to synthesize everything
and give a final response to our user
and will get the final response.
So this is all happening behind the scenes.
Of course us, we just use the agent,
and the agent does stuff
and automatically we see the final response.
But Bedrock is really nice
because you actually have something called tracing
on your agent,
and this allows you to see the list of steps
that were done by the agent.
So you can debug in case you don't like a way
an agent performed something.
So that's it for Amazon Bedrock Agents.

---

37. Amazon Bedrock - CloudWatch Integration

So now let's talk about
the integration of Amazon Bedrock
and a service called CloudWatch.
So CloudWatch is a way for you to do cloud monitoring.
So CloudWatch has many services,
but you can have metrics, you can have alarms,
you could have logs and so on
in CloudWatch and view them all.
And many services and areas have integration
with CloudWatch.
So for Amazon Bedrock,
what you can do is you can do model invocation logging,
and that's something that can come up at the exam.
So the idea is that you want to send all the invocations,
so all the inputs
and the outputs of model invocations into either CloudWatch
Logs or Amazon S3.
And this can include the text, the images,
as well as the embeddings.
And this is very helpful because you get a history
of everything that happened within Bedrock.
On top of it, you can analyze the data further
and build alerting on top of it,
thanks to CloudWatch Logs Insights,
which is a service, which allows you
to analyze the logs in real time from CloudWatch Logs.
So the idea here is that we get full tracing
and monitoring of Bedrock, thanks to CloudWatch Logs.
The other one is CloudWatch Metrics.
So the idea is that Amazon Bedrock is going to publish a lot
of different metrics to CloudWatch, and then
they can appear in Cloud Metrics.
And some of them may be for general usage of Bedrock,
but some of them may also be related to guardrails.
So there is one called content filtered count,
which helps you understand if some content was
filtered from a guardrail.
And so what we can do with it is
that once you have these kind
of metrics in CloudWatch Metrics,
you can build cloud alarms on top of them to get alerted,
for example, when something is caught by a guardrail
or when Amazon Bedrock is exceeding a specific threshold
for a specific metric.
So model invocation logging
and CloudWatch metrics are very important in Amazon Bedrock
and they are topics that can appear in the exam.

---

38. Amazon Bedrock - CloudWatch Integration - Hands On

So let's have a look at the integration
between Bedrock and CloudWatch logs.
So we're gonna go under settings on the bottom left,
and you have model invocation logging.
So here we can definitely enable it.
And then this is going to collect all metadata
request and responses for all model invocations
in your accounts.
So you can select the type of data
you want to include with logs.
So it could be text, images and embeddings.
And then the destination could be Amazon S3 buckets,
or it could be CloudWatch only, or it could be both.
So I'm just going to use CloudWatch only.
And then you need to specify a log group name.
So I call this one Bedrock Invocation Logging.
And then I will create a user new role.
So this is the role that Amazon Bedrock will need
to send data to CloudWatch log.
So I call one Bedrock
Invocation Logging Role.
Okay.
And next we have external location for larger delivery.
So in case it's over 100 kilobytes,
then it can be published to Amazon S3,
but we don't need this right now,
so we're going to just save these settings.
So we get an error saying the specified log group
doesn't exist, so we have to create it manually
in CloudWatch in this instance.
Maybe this will be fixed by the time you use this.
But let's go into CloudWatch logs, log groups,
and then you're going to create a new log group.
And the name is going to be this one
that I'm going to copy and paste.
So we can set up some settings.
Do you want the log to expire or not?
But we're just going to click on create and get going.
Okay, so now my log group is created.
It is here.
And let's go ahead in Amazon Bedrock.
And we're going to save these settings one more time.
And we now need to say that we want to use
an existing service role, that is right here,
so let me refresh this.
This is sometimes a bit annoying when you have issues
on the console, but AWS may fix this at some point.
So here we go.
Now we select the existing role that has been created
and save the settings and we should be good to go.
Okay, so the settings have been saved successfully.
And what I can do now is I can go in chat,
I will select a model, and I will just click on run.
And then we're going to get, so we send an input,
and then we get an output, and we're good to go.
Now let's wait a little bit and then go into CloudWatch logs
to see if this appears.
So I'm going into CloudWatch logs and we refresh this page,
and we have one log stream here.
It is Bedrock Model Invocations,
and here we have the information
that the permissions are set correctly
for Amazon Bedrock logs.
And then we get some information about a model invocation.
So we get a lot of information around it,
but we know that, for example,
the model ID is Amazon.Titan-Text-Express-V1.
This is a way for us to identify
the models that we're using.
We get information about the region,
and then we get the messages.
So we have a user, that's us, and we sent this input,
and then we have some information around the configuration
for this invocation.
And how many tokens was it? 271.
And the output is this message.
So the assistant role means that it's the model itself,
and the content is this.
And so again, we get the information
that the latency was 4,038 millisecond.
We get information around the output token,
the total token, and so on.
So this is very helpful because as you can see,
a lot of information is included here,
and we can use this information later on
to debug everything.
For example, we could, for example, run an alarm
and to look at if the latency
is always beneath a specific number.
And if one day the latency reaches a high number,
then we may want to send an alert saying,
"Hey, your latency requirements are a little too high now,
and the user experience may be degraded."
So that's the way of doing it.
But hopefully you get the idea
of integrating Amazon Bedrock with CloudWatch Logs.
So the other thing we can do is go into CloudWatch,
and go into all metrics, and then click on Bedrock.
And you may have more metrics than me,
but we have here metrics by model ID.
You can look at it, or across all model ID.
And for example, we can have a look at the number
of invocations or for example, the invocation latency.
And we can see here that the latency
is being plotted on this graph.
So now of course, if you have a sustained usage
of Amazon Bedrock, then you will see a curve here
with multiple data points.
But a lot of metrics are being sent by Bedrock
into CloudWatch metrics.
And you can then build metrics, graphs, dashboards,
and alarms on top of it as well in case, for example,
the invocation latency gets too high.

---

39. Amazon Bedrock - Pricing

So now for pricing on Amazon Bedrocks.
So you have the on-demand mode,
and this is where you pay-as-you-go.
There is no commitment,
and you're going to get charged
for text models based on every input
and output token processed.
For embeddings model.
Again, for every input token processed
and for image models, you're going to be charged
for every image generated.
And this works with the base models
and the custom models you will have created
out of Amazon Bedrock.
If you want to have some cost-savings,
you can use the batch mode.
So in the batch mode, you can make multiple predictions
at a time, and the output is going
to be a single file in Amazon S3.
And by using batch mode, you're going
to get responses a bit later than in real-time,
but at least you're going to get discounts of up to 50%.
For provisioned throughput.
This is when you want to purchase model units
for a certain time with, for example, for one month
or six month, and you're going
to get a guaranteed throughput.
That means that you're going to get a maximum number
of input and output tokens processed per minute
as a guaranteed.
And the idea is that you're going to maintain capacity
and performance, which is very important,
but it does not necessarily provide you with cost-savings.
So Provisioned Throughput works with base models,
but is necessary if you have a fine-tuned model
or custom models or imported models.
In this case, you cannot use on-demand.
You have to use provisioned throughput.
So you need to also understand that the pricing
behind improving a model.
So if you use prompt engineering,
this is when you have techniques
and we'll see them in the next section
or techniques to improve the prompt and the output of model.
Well, this requires no further model training,
so there's no additional computation or fine-tuning.
So this is very, very cheap to do.
If you use RAG, Retrieval-Augmented Generation,
it uses an external knowledge base, and
because the financial model does know everything,
so it's less complex.
There's no financial model change.
You don't need to retrain your model or do fine-tuning.
But there is a cost of course,
because now you need to have a vector database
and you need to have a system that allows you to access
that vector database.
Then we have instruction-based fine-tuning.
So this is when the financial model is fine-tuned
with specific instructions,
and that requires additional computation.
But this is really done to steer how the model is going
to answer a few important questions
to set the tone maybe for the model.
And finally, domain adaptation.
Fine-tuning is very expensive
because now you're going
to adapt a model train on the domain-specific dataset
and then includes creating a lot of data
and then retraining the model with all the data.
Remember, it's unlabeled,
whereas instruction-based was labeled,
and this requires intensive computation.
And so therefore, this intuitively will cost
more than instruction-based fine-tuning.
So how can you do cost-savings on Amazon Bedrock?
Well, if you use the on-demand pricing model is going
to be great for unpredictable workload,
and you have no long-term commitments.
If using the batch mode, you get up to 50% discounts,
but, of course, you need to wait
a little bit for your results.
For provisioned throughputs,
usually it's not a cost-saving measure.
The goal of it is to really reserve capacity from AWS
and their providers.
And so therefore, you should not use this
as a cost-savings strategy.
If you modify the temperature, the Top K,
or the Top P parameter, you modify how the model is working.
But this has no impact on the pricing.
And if you have the model size in mind,
usually a smaller model is going to be cheaper.
But again, this varies on who you get the model from.
So one of the main driver
of cost-savings in Amazon Bedrock is to modify the number
of input and output tokens.
This is the main driver of cost, so try to get your prompt
as efficiently written as possible
and try to get your output as concise
and short as possible as well if you are worried
about cost-savings.

---

40. Amazon Bedrock - AI Stylist - Hands On

So we have explored a lot of options
in Amazon Bedrock,
but I want to show you a full end-to-end use case
because the idea is that right now,
we've done everything in the console, as a playground,
but actually to use Bedrock,
you need to implement your own code
and do what's called API calls into Amazon Bedrock
to invoke the features we just used,
and to build your application on top of Amazon Bedrock.
And it's pretty cool because, well,
there is an example that is provided by AWS,
which is an interactive demo called the AI Stylist.
So let's launch this demo
because I wanna show you what a final product
would look like when it's backed by Amazon Bedrock.
So here, this is an application that AWS has created,
that's going for you to generate looks
based on your use case.
So let's click on try free demo,
and here we're going to find an outfit
in less in five minutes,
and we'll see all the Amazon Bedrock capabilities being used
as part of the scenarios and they should make sense to you.
So let's start exploring.
So here we have an AI Stylist
and it's going to perform an outfit for us.
So we start now and we get the first message saying,
"Hey, I'm your AI stylist.
Let's find you an outfit
that makes you feel comfortable and confident."
So here we have the prompt saying,
"I'm a consultant and I'm traveling to New York next week.
What kind of outfit should I wear
on my first day at the office?"
So you can't edit this at the moment,
but you click on generate my look.
And here, this explains how things
are working behind the scenes.
So we see that there is a customer prompt,
and we see here that we have knowledge bases,
and so a few knowledge bases have been created.
We have one for the product catalog.
This is all the private data we have within our company.
We have fashion trends, this is a public data set,
order history, which is private data
and customer review, which is private data.
But for this use case,
only two knowledge bases are being used,
and there's one thing that's using them,
it's called an AI agent.
Now, AI agent is a little bit more advanced,
that's why we haven't seen them in details,
but the idea is that AI agents are smart enough
to query these knowledge bases and put things together.
And so we have an agent for our product catalog
and we have an agent for image generation.
And so this agent, based on the prompts you have,
are smart enough to go into a knowledge bases, look at them,
and then create the final content.
So click on view your looks,
and the AI Stylist is saying,
"Hey, I've selected two looks for you.
There is a business formal and there is a business casual."
And so the images are generated by AI
and the text generation is also generated,
thanks to what we have found in our knowledge base.
So next we have a suggested prompt saying,
"Hey, what do people like about
the business formal jackets?"
And now the agent is smart enough
to look again into our knowledge base,
which is our customer review,
and to say, "Well, people like the quality,
color, and fabric."
So it tells you there are 325 customer reviews
and it summarizes them in one thing.
So again, from the AI standpoint,
from the application standpoint,
all these things happen behind the scene,
but you as a user, you're just interacting with this AI.
So now say, "Show me some specific reviews
and talk about the jacket itself."
And so again, the agent is going
to go into your knowledge bases, find the product,
and find the review and create this kind of outcome.
Then, "What size should I wear?"
So we keep on chatting with it
and we'll say, "Well, based on your previous orders,"
because it has access to our previous orders,
"I suggest ordering size M."
And okay, "Please add it to my cart."
So now the agent is able to also modify the cart and add it.
So this is very nice, and we can add more stuff to the cart.
So again, it's going to do some back
and forth with our knowledge base
and also with our APIs to add some data into our carts.
And then say, "Okay, this is the cart we have for you.
Are you ready to finalize the order?"
Yes, click on finalize the order, and there you go,
the order is being generated.
And so this is pretty cool because well,
all of this is now a new way to interact with websites
and with applications just thanks to AI.
So we click on view cart, and here we go, we have the cart,
it's going to be delivered to our address,
and we know about the weather, so it's also recommending,
for example, to add more stuff into our order.
So this is quite cool, I think,
because it really shows you how Bedrock
is powering this demo.
And now that we've seen all the stuff about Amazon Bedrock,
this should make sense to you.

---

41. Amazon Nova

Transcript
So, now let's talk about Amazon Nova.
So it's a family of AI Foundation Models, FMs, built by AWS.
The idea is that you're going to use those in bedrock,
like you would use any model.
So this is the alternative by AWS
to other models from ChatGPT or Claude.
It's designed to be fast, cost-effective,
and enterprise-ready.
And as I said, you can access it through Amazon Bedrock.
So the exam may ask you what model is used for what.
So you have Nova Premier, which is the most capable
of Amazon's multimodal models for complex reasoning tasks
and for use as the best teacher
for distilling custom models.
You have Nova Pro, which is a bit lower.
So it's a highly capable multimodal model
with the best combination of accuracy, speed, and cost
for a wide range of tasks.
You have Nova Lite, which is a low-cost model
that is lightning fast for processing image,
video, and text inputs.
And Nova Micro, which is the text-only model
that delivers the lowest latency responses at very low cost.
Now, this is to get understanding of, you know,
text and/or video and/or images.
But if you wanted to generate images, you have Nova Canvas,
which is a state-of-the-art image generation model.
You have Nova Reel, which is a state-of-the-art
video generation model.
And for speech you have Nova Sonic,
which is a conversational speech understanding
and generation model in multiple languages.
So, you need to just remember that Canvas is for images,
Reel for videos,
then you have Premier down to Micro for dealing with text.
And the first three are multimodal,
the last one is text only.
And finally, for speech, Nova Sonic.
This should be quite obvious at the exam
when the question is asked which model is used for what.
Now you also have Amazon Nova 2, which are new models
with enhanced capabilities.
And this is used for building interactive chatbots,
analyzing documents and videos, and create AI agents.
You have up to one million tokens of context
and advanced reasoning capabilities.
So again, you have Nova 2 Lite,
which is fast, cost-effective reasoning model
for everyday workloads,
so text, images, videos, and documents.
Sonic, again, which gives you the speech capability.
Then you have Nova 2 Multimodal Embeddings,
which gives you an embedding model for RAG
if you needed to do it.
And Nova 2 Omni, which is an all-in-one model
for multimodal reasoning and image generation.
So, the idea is that Omni is going to be the best model,
Lite is going to be little fast,
a little bit more cost-effective,
Sonic for speech, and then you have an Embeddings model.
Now as you can see, more capabilities
have been regrouped in one model.
So now Omni and Lite both deal with text, images,
videos, and documents.
