
72. Section Introduction

AWS has created now for many years specialized AI services
that it was offering before even Amazon Bedrock.
And these services will help you with image recognition,
text translation, and speech generation.
So these services are a very important part at the exam,
and I want you to learn about them,
so that's what we're going to do in this section.
I hope you're excited,

---
73. Why AWS Managed Services?

So in this section,
we're going to see a lot more AWS AI managed services.
So why do we want them?
Well, because these services
are pre-trained machine learning services,
and they're geared towards a very specific use case.
So for example,
we've seen that we have Amazon Bedrock to do GenAI,
and we have even higher level gen AI services,
such as Amazon Q Business and Amazon Q Developer.
And we'll have a look soon at SageMaker,
but you may want to do other things than GenAI,
and so there are lots of services
that we'll learn about in this section.
For example, you can process text
and documents with Comprehend, Translate, or Textract.
You can do vision with Recognition.
You can do search with Amazon Kendra.
You can do chatbots with Amazon Lex,
speech with Amazon Poly and Amazon Transcribe,
recommendations with Personalize.
And then if you want to do machine learning as a whole,
you could use Amazon SageMaker,
which is a huge service in AWS.
So you can do everything on your own computer, of course,
or on your own server in the cloud.
But you may want to use these services.
Well, why?
Because they have responsiveness and availability.
So they can be available in many different Regions,
and they're always available.
You have redundancy,
and they can be deployed across multiple Availability Zones.
That means that if you have a failure in the cloud,
then these services may still work.
They have good performance.
That means they have specialized CPU
and GPUs that are embedded in these services
to give you the best cost savings for your use case.
And also, most of these services
are going to be token-based pricing.
That means you're going to pay only for what you use,
which is great
because you don't have to over-provision servers
in order to perform your use case.
Finally, you can also, if you wanted to,
have provision throughput for some of these services,
and this is for predictable workloads
that gives you more cost savings
and even more predictable performance.
So AWS will want you to know about these services
from an exam perspective,
and this is what we're going to explore in this section.

---

74. Amazon Comprehend

So now let's talk about Amazon Comprehend.
So Amazon Comprehend is used for natural language processing
or NLP, and it's a fully managed and serverless service.
So it's going to use machine learning to find insights
and relationship in your text.
So it's going to understand the language of the text,
it is going to be able to extract key phrases, places,
people, brands, or events.
And it will try to understand how positive
or negative the text is.
It is going to analyze text using tokenization
and also part of speech if you need to.
And it will organize a collection of text file by topics.
So some use cases you have around comprehend is going
to analyze, for example, customer interactions such
as emails to find what is going to lead to a positive
or a negative experience,
or create a group articles by topics
that Comprehend will uncover itself.
So Comprehend is a service we'll have a hands-on in a
moment, but we have the option
to have advanced settings such as custom classification.
So here we define how we want Comprehend
to categorize the documents for ourselves,
so we define them.
So for example, we have a bunch
of customer emails and we provide several kind
of categories based on the type of customer request,
for example, support requests or billing requests,
or complaints and so on.
And it supports many different types of documents such
as text, PDF, Word images.
And so we're going to create train data,
put it in Amazon S3,
and then feed it into Amazon Comprehend, which is going
to build and train internally a custom classifier.
And then whenever a document arrives or an email
or whatever you want, then the custom classifier is going
to say, well, this looks like a complaint document
and you've defined what complaint looked like.
So we can use the custom classification
with real time analysis,
or a synchronous analysis,
to have multiple documents in the batch way
or just asynchronous for big ones.
One of Comprehend's main out of the box capability is
to do named entity recognition or NER.
So it's to extract predefined general purpose entities like
people, places, organization, dates,
and other standard categories from text.
So here is an example text,
and as you can see a lot of it is underlined.
So thanks to named entity recognition, we can recognize
that Zhang Wei is a person, John is a person,
Any Company Financial Services LLC is an organization,
and for example, July the 31st is a date.
So all these things are capabilities out
of the box from Comprehend called named entity recognition.
So we also have the option to make Comprehend,
recognize custom entities.
So here we want to analyze the text for specific terms
and noun based phrases.
For example, you have a document
and you want to be able
to consistently extract the policy numbers
or phrases that imply a customer escalation
or anything related to your business really.
So again, you're going to train the model
with a list of the entities you're looking for
and documents that contain them.
So you give examples to Comprehend
and then a custom entity recognizer is going to be trained
and then you can use it, for example, to look
for policy numbers within your documents.
This can be real time or asynchronous analysis.
So that's it for Comprehend, just understand that is used
for natural language processing and understanding,
and you have the option to have custom classifications
and custom entity recognition if you train the model
on top of Comprehend.
So that's it for this lecture, I hope you liked it,

---

75. Amazon Comprehend - Hands On

So let's have a look at Amazon Comprehend.
So it's a natural language processing tool
to look at some text and process it.
So here we have the option to play with it in a console.
So let's remove this right now,
which is around the spa experience,
and we just have this message
where we have a financial company which says to this person
that they have a minimum payment due.
So we analyze this and we get some results.
So first of all, entities are extracted from your text.
So this is unstructured data of course,
but after using Comprehend, it is going to be structured.
So the entities for example, is
that Zhang Wei is a person and so is John.
We found an organization
named Any Company Financial Services,
and then we found some quantities,
we found some dates,
and then some things are written as other.
So this doesn't know what it is just yet,
but if we look at key phrases,
we can have a look at the most important ones in the text.
If we look at the language, we can see
that it's a 99% chance that this is in English,
and yes it is in English.
If we look at PII,
so personally identifiable information, analysis mode,
then automatically the Comprehend service
was able to detect that we have two person's names,
so they are of course PII.
We also have a credit card account number,
and we have a due date
and we have a bank account number and a routing number.
And so all these things are considered PII
and have been detected by Amazon Comprehend,
which could be very handy if you're trying
to process the data in batch.
For sentiment, this is about to understand
what is the tone of the text.
So this looks right now
that this is neutral at 99% confidence.
It's neither positive or negative or mixed.
And of course this is just an information text,
so this is why this is classified as neutral.
But this sentiment analysis can come very handy
if you're trained, for example,
to build a customer service app
and to understand the quality of the interaction
between your support agents and your customers.
Targeted sentiment is about understanding
how the sentiment was being built.
And syntax is to understand the syntax,
the grammatical syntax of this entire sentence.
For example, what is a noun, what is a proper noun,
what is punctuation?
And so on.
So this is Comprehend in the gist.
We can do analysis job where we can analyze
a lot of data at once from Amazon S3,
and then we can do custom classification.
So for a custom classification, it's about you having
to create custom categories and asking Comprehend
to classify your incoming text based on these categories.
This can be very handy, for example,
if you have a support service
and you're trying to understand, for example,
if the question of your customer is around the billing
or is around product support, or if it's a feature request,
or if it's an account problem, and so on.
So you would create these categories
and Comprehend can categorize things for you.
So I want to adjust the options.
So you create a new model
and then you have to provide what's called training data.
So you need to train Comprehend to make it understand
how you want things to be classified.
So here they talk about comedy
and drama where they give examples.
So this is some text, a long text,
and we say this is comedy, or this is another long text,
say again, this is comedy, and this other text right here,
now this is drama.
So you would, for example, for your business
provide maybe 10 emails from customers
asking you about billing issues.
For example, the credit card is not working
or they want to understand their bills, on and on,
and you would create this CSV file
where you would train Comprehend on it.
So you need to have 10 documents for each class you want
to classify, but of course the more data,
the more, the better,
and then you put it on Amazon S3.
You would train this classifier
and automatically Comprehend will now be able
to classify data for you, which can be very handy.
And then once you have built your classifier,
you need to purchase what's called a custom endpoint,
and this will allow you to perform requests right here
to conduct real-time analysis
and to perform requests to analyze your documents
and classify them in real time,
and this can be very handy from a customer service purpose,
but anytime you also need to classify data
that is text-based.

---

76. Amazon Translate

Now let's talk about Amazon Translate.
So Translate, as the name indicate,
is a natural and accurate language translation.
Translate allows you to localize content,
for example, your websites and your application,
for your international users
and easily translates large volume of text efficiently.
So for example, say in English, I say,
"Hi, my name is Stephen,"
In French, it would be. (speaking in foreign language)
In Portuguese, it would be. (speaking in foreign language)
And in Hindi, it would be. (speaking in foreign language)
Okay, I just showed off.
So that was it, super easy service.

---

77. Amazon Translate - Hands On

So, now let's have
a look at Amazon Translate.
So, you just enter it,
and so this is a neural network
that is powering a translation service.
So you can do any kind of translation.
For example, we can do from English into French
and then say, "Hello, how are you?"
And then automatically
(speaking French)
So this is working easily
and you have a lot of options available to you
for source and target languages.
And you can also translate entire documents.
So, again, you would choose the source language,
the target language.
You would upload a file, specify the document types,
so plain text, HTML or docx.
And then, there you go, this document would be translated.
So this is very handy.
You can also do batch translation.
So this is a translation job
in which you would create the job.
Again, specify the source and the target language.
And, here, the input data would be an Amazon S3 bucket
where you would put all your documents
that you wanna be translated, as well as their formats.
And, finally, you would say where in Amazon history
you want the translations to be.
This is very helpful when you want to do a translation
of many different files at the same time.
So let's cancel this job.
Here, around metrics, you can view how many requests
of translation have been successful or unsuccessful,
which is important to have a look at if Amazon Translate
is doing its job correctly.
And then we can customize it.
So we have custom terminology.
So in info you will get more info.
But the idea is that, for example,
your brand name, your character's name,
your unique content may have unique translations
into other languages.
And, so, therefore you would create a dictionaries,
called the terminology here.
And this terminology, you can be having it in CSV format,
or TSV format or TMX format.
And this will help Amazon Translate,
translate your specific terms and use that.
Finally, you have parallel data.
So this is more around how you want
to customize the style of the translation.
So, here, they give a very good example.
For example, the sentence, "How are you?"
If you are in a very informal context in French would be
(speaking French language)
which is a very easy and informal way
of saying, "How are you?"
But if you are in an office, for example, a law office,
you may want to translate into
(speaking French language)
which is the more formal way of saying
"How are you?" in French.
And so this is where you would set it up,
here in Amazon Translates.
Of course, this was a high-level overview,
but I want to give you an overview about
how the service works and what it can do.
And you could also try it around on your own.
But it's quite a straightforward service,

---

78. Amazon Transcribe

So now let's talk about Amazon Transcribe.
So as the name indicates,
it allows you to automatically convert speech into text.
So you pass in some audio
and automatically it's going to be transcribed into text.
So you could say, "Hey, hello, my name is Stephane
and I hope you're enjoying the course!"
Now, how does it do it?
Well, it uses a deep learning process called the ASR,
the automatic speech recognition,
to convert speech to text very quickly and accurately.
And there are a few features you need to know about.
The first one is that you can automatically remove any PII
so personally identifiable information using redaction.
So that means, for example,
if you have someone's age
or name or social security number,
this can be automatically removed.
And also you can have access
to automatic language identification for multilingual audio.
So if you have some French and some English, some Spanish
Transcribe is smart enough to recognize all of those.
So the use cases for Amazon Transcribe
is to transcribe customer service calls,
to automate closed captioning and subtitling,
and also to generate metadata for media assets
to create a fully searchable archive.
So there's a way for you to improve the accuracy
of Amazon Transcribe.
So we can allow Transcribe
to capture domain specific or non-standard terms
such as technical words, acronyms, and jargon.
For example, say we use a speech
and we say we can use AWS Microservices
and Transcribe is giving us a USA my crow services,
which sounds a little bit like AWS microservices,
but not exactly.
So how can we improve this?
Well, we can have custom vocabularies for words.
So here we can add specific words,
phrases, or domain-specific terms.
So it's very good if you have a brand name or acronyms
and using those all the time.
And you can increase the recognition of a new word
by providing hints such as how to pronounce it.
So once we have this custom vocabulary,
we can recognize very specific terms such as AWS.
The other one is around custom language models.
So before that was for words,
but now it's for context.
So here we're going to train the Transcribe model
on our own domain-specific text data.
So that means that, for example,
you have a large volume of domain-specific speech
and you are going to give Transcribe
the chance to learn the context
associated with a given word.
Because, for example,
for if you are dealing with crows or birds,
you may have the option to say you have a crow service,
a my crow service, right?
But if you are doing a lot of IT,
then microservice for you is one word.
And so therefore, by providing a custom language models,
you're not teaching new words to Amazon Transcribe,
but you're giving the context of what you're trying to do
and therefore Transcribe will know what word to use.
And so, of course, use both
for highest transcription accuracy.
And so therefore in our example,
now that we have enabled a custom vocabulary
and a custom language,
Transcribe knows how to convert our speech
to AWS Microservices.
Transcribe also has a toxicity detection feature.
So this is machine learning power, of course,
and you can directly use a voice sample
to detect toxicity.
So it looks like this.
The way it works is that there's two types of data
being leveraged for the toxicity detection.
First of all is speech cues.
So the actual tone
and the pitch of the audio is going to be looked at.
And if someone seems angry in their voice tone
is going to be of course flagged.
And there's also text-based cues.
For example, if someone is saying
profanities or hate speech,
then of course it's going to be detected.
But the beauty here is that it's the combination
of both the audio and the text
that is going to be helpful
to describe toxicity in a sample.
So you have a lot of categories
that your toxicity can be classified into.
For example, sexual harassment, hate speech,
threats, abuse, profanity, insult, and graphic.
And this feature is something that can come up at the exam,

---
79. Amazon Transcribe - Hands On

So let's have a look at Amazon Transcribe.
So I can create a transcript
and I can see that the specific language right now
is set to English US.
So now if I click on start streaming,
hello, I really like this course.
As you can see, the outcome
of the audio get directly transcribed into some text.
So that's pretty cool, right?
Also, you can have the setting to remove some content
and you can remove PII identification.
So I could say, hey, you can identify
and redact it to remove it.
And these are the kind of things that can be removed.
So for example, let's have an example and try it out.
So I won't show this alert again.
Hello, my name is Stephane.
I am 31 years old, and my phone number is 910-747-280.
And as you can see now, the things got hidden.
So my name is hidden and my phone is hidden.
Obviously this was not my real phone number.
You cannot try it.
Okay, and last thing I want to show you
is that you can actually stream into multiple languages,
so you have automatic language identification.
So I'll choose English and French,
and then let's start again.
Hello, this is some recognition happening in English.
(Stephane speaking in French)
Pretty awesome, right?
Well, that's it for Amazon Transcribe.

---

80. Amazon Polly

So Amazon Polly
is the opposite of Amazon Transcribe.
So this allows you to turn text into lifelike speech
using deep learning.
And allows you to create applications that will talk.
For example, if I write, "Hi, my name is Stephane,
and this is a demo of Amazon Polly,"
then the speech is going to be generated for me
by Amazon Polly.
So Polly has a few advanced features
that may come up in the exam.
The first one is around lexicons.
So you define how to read certain pieces of text.
For example, I may write AWS,
but I want Polly to pronounce Amazon Web Services.
Or I may write W3C,
but actually want Polly to say World Wide Web Consortium.
Then we have the SSML,
so the Speech Synthesis Markup Language,
and I give you an extract on the right-hand side.
And so they are markups that indicates
how your text should be pronounced.
For example, if you have "Hello"
and then break, "how are you?"
It's going to say "Hello," then have a long break,
and then "how are you?"
So it's not going to say "Hello, break, how are you?"
It's going to know to whisper, to say it,
to pronounce abbreviations, to emphasize a word, and so on.
The voice engine has multiple ones,
so you have, from the most historical to the new one,
you have neural, standard, long-form, and generative.
And so the newest one have very good human-like voices.
And then you can have speech mark.
So you want to know where is audio,
like where a word or a sentence starts or ends in the audio.
So Polly can give you this information
because they give you the audio as well as this speech mark.
And this can be very helpful for lip-syncing
or for highlighting words as they are spoken.

---

81. Amazon Polly - Hands On

So now let's have a look at Amazon Polly.
So let's click on try Polly.
As you can see, I can do text to speech
and have different engines.
So we have the generative, which is producing
the most expressive and adaptive speech using gen AI,
long form to have longer content,
neural, which is more human-like than standard,
or standard, and so you get to choose whatever you want
and you can try it out.
For example, we have this info text, hi, I'm Ruth.
I can read any text for you.
Test it out!
So let's listen to it.
Hi, I'm Ruth.
I can read any text for you.
Test it out!
So you see,
this sounds pretty good and natural.
We can try something else, so hi, I'm Stephane,
and I'm teaching AWS, it's awesome!
And let's try this for the long form, for example,
and I'm gonna give myself a male voice,
the voice of Gregory.
Hi, I'm Stephane and I'm teaching AWS, it's awesome!
Okay, and so we can see
that this works really well, but let's use SSML.
So we are going to use a markup language
and for example, we want to test it on this,
but I'm going to just have a break here.
So I'm teaching and I think this should work
or let's copy this into SSML, here we go.
I'm teaching &lt;break&gt; AWS, and so this should make
a little pause here because we have provided
some markup information.
So let's try it out.
And yeah, of course I need to add the &lt;speak&gt;
at the beginning, and then the &lt;speak&gt; like this at the end,
and then for break, I need to add like this.
Okay, so now it's gonna say, hopefully add a pause,
here we go.
Hi, I'm Stephane and I'm teaching AWS, it's awesome!
You see there was a pause
between teaching and AWS.
So you can experiment, but this is a pretty natural
service to use and you can look at the additional settings
to customize pronunciation.
For example, if I wanted my name to be pronounced correctly,
I could probably use this,
or to have different output format for your speech.
Okay, that's it, I hope you liked Amazon Polly,

---

82. Amazon Rekognition


So now, let's talk about Amazon Rekognition.
So, it's a service that allows you to find objects, people,
texts, or scenes directly in images or videos,
and it's using, of course, machine learning.
So, you can do a facial analysis or a facial search
if you want to do user verification
or counting people in a photo.
And you can create a database of familiar faces
or compare any face you find against celebrities.
So, the use cases for Amazon Rekognition
would be labeling, content moderation, text detection,
face detection analysis,
such as understanding the gender,
the age range, the emotions,
face search and verification, celebrity recognition,
and pathing, which is, for example,
when you're doing sports game analysis,
and you want to understand the path
that the ball or a player took.
So, here I am on the Amazon Rekognition website
and if you scroll down,
you can see the type of use cases and features there are.
So, you have face liveness to see if someone is actual alive
and is his real face using in the call, for example.
Comparing faces and searching for faces.
Detecting a face, and what are the attributes,
for example, female, eyes are open, happy, smiling.
Content moderation to have content that's going to be safe,
for example, for children to watch and so on.
Look at labels in pictures such as, for example here,
the AWS DeepRacer logo.
Detect some texts such as the numbers in a picture
to find whose racer is where.
Labeling again, what is a person, a rock,
crest, outdoors, mountain bike, and so on.
So, and detecting celebrity, for example here,
Werner Vogels in this picture.
So it's very, very broad and useful service,
which allows to really analyze videos and images
and to figure out a lot of attributes thanks to AI
and machine learning.
So, a feature that may appear in the exam
is called Custom Labels for Amazon Rekognition.
The idea is that you want to identify your own products
or you want to find your own logo
in social media posts or whatever.
And for example, the NFL will use this service
to find their own logos in pictures of Amazon Rekognition.
In that case, what do we have to do to make it happen?
Well, we label training images,
we upload them to Amazon Rekognition,
you need only a few hundred images or less,
and Amazon Rekognition
is going to create a custom model based on your images
and is going to be able to recognize
what your logo looks like,
what your products look like,
et cetera, et cetera.
And so, therefore,
new images that will be analyzed
by this Custom Labels feature
will be analyzed also for whatever you're looking for.
So, it could be your logo or something else.
So, the process is very simple.
You label images and you store them in Amazon S3,
so that could be a bunch of images
with your logo on it or your products,
and then you're going to train Amazon Rekognition
to create Custom Labels.
And so, whenever a user, for example,
is posting something on social media
and you analyze this picture,
very quickly, thanks to Amazon Rekognition,
you'll be able to say that yes,
your logo is appearing in that picture
and that could be beneficial for your brand.
The other thing you have is content moderation.
So, here the idea
is that you want to automatically detect inappropriate,
unwanted, or offensive content.
So it could be very handy, for example,
for your own social media page
to filter out harmful media images
or figure out if advertising is wrong,
et cetera, et cetera.
And the content moderation on Rekognition is very good
because you bring down the number of human review
to about 1 to 5% of the content volume,
which is good because, well,
you don't want to review all the things
that have been flagged.
You want to automate part of it,
but sometimes AI is still not as good as humans.
And if you need a human review,
there's another service called Amazon Augmented AI
or Amazon A2I that can be used for human review.
And that's just for the basic,
out-of-the-box content moderation,
but it's possible for you
to also create a custom moderation adapter.
And here, you're going to extend Rekognition capability
by providing your own labeled set of images,
and you're going to define
what you want to moderate in or out.
And it could be to either enhance the accuracy
of content moderation
or if you have a specific use case of moderation.
So, how does it work?
Well, you label your images again
and you train a Rekognition Custom Moderation Adapter.
And whenever images arrive for moderation,
either they pass or fail the moderation.
But if Rekognition has a doubt,
then 1 to 5%, for example, can be sent for human review,
and then you can use Amazon Augmented AI
to make a final decision on these images.
And actually, the result of that assessment
can be fed back into the training of Rekognition,
which is very handy.
So, here is an example
of how you can use Rekognition Content Moderation API.
So, say for example,
you've developed an application and it's a chatbot,
and this chatbot is able to generate images.
So, the users say, "Hey, please generate an image for this."
Then, the chatbot will generate the image,
but you don't know if that image
is going to be safe to return to the user just yet.
So, you may use Amazon Rekognition
and you send the image with the DetectModerationLabels API
and Amazon Rekognition is going to have a look
and create labels for your image.
And if the labels are clear
of any unsafe or harmful type of content,
then your chatbot may say,
"Okay, it's okay to return this to the user,"
and the user will receive back your image.
So, it's a very simple way
how you can use the Content Moderation API from Rekognition
to implement safety in your applications.

---

83. Amazon Rekognition - Hands On

So let's have a look at the capabilities
of Amazon recognition.
The first one is around label detection.
So here we provide a picture,
and we're able to have object detections.
For example, this is a building, this is a person,
this is a skateboard, and here we have cars.
And within the cars, we even have wheels.
So all these things are detected.
And on top of it, we have results
that are giving us some extra information such as a road,
a street, transportation, and so on
with the confidence score on the right hand side.
So this is very handy, and you can do this as well
on the other sample image and see that we define,
we detect a tower here and so on.
And you could have custom labels if you wanted to have
your own labels for the own objects in your dataset
that you wanted to recognize.
Okay, next, we have image properties.
So it's to find some information around an image.
For example, this one, we can get the dominant colors,
the image quality, the foreground properties,
and background properties.
For image moderation, we can have a look
at whether or not some images should be authorized,
if they're authorized or not.
So it would be blurred, for example,
based on the moderation labels that it detects.
Obviously, these images are fine so far.
Facial analysis, so we can have a look at facial attributes.
So this looks like a face, and it appears to be female.
We get an age range, we get some smiling attributes
and appears to be happy and so on.
We get facial comparison,
where we can look if two people are very similar,
and these people are very similar.
But if you take Bezos and that person,
they are not similar.
Face liveness, so this is for your camera.
Celebrity recognition.
So here, we have Jeff Bezos.
And here, we have Andy Jassy.
And text in image.
So to recognize some text in images,
which is helpful to extract it.
So it has a similar use case of text tracks,
but of course here, this is a different methodology.
So here, "It's Monday but keep smiling."
Super good.
And finally, personal protective equipment detection
to see if face covers, head covers, and hand covers
are appearing in images, which is a very specific use case.
So remember that modern recognition
is around really analysis of images
and has several capabilities.
And you can also build your own custom moderation
type of detection if you wanted to detect
specific use cases for your business
and your own custom labels as well
if you wanted to extend the labels to things
that are more relevant to your business,
and you can train the recognition model
just by adding your own sample data sets.

---

84. Amazon Lex

So now let's talk about Amazon Lex.
So Amazon Lex is a way for you to build chatbots quickly
for your application using either voice or text
to interface with the chatbots.
So here's an example of a chatbot,
which is actually doing hotel bookings.
But you can do a chatbot for anything, for example,
to order pizza, to provide customer support, and so on.
So Amazon Lex builds a conversational AI
and it supports multiple languages.
On top of it,
in order to perform the actions it's supposed to do
it has deep integration with AWS Lambda,
or Amazon Connect, Comprehend, or Kendra.
The idea is that the bot is going to understand
the user intent
and then invoke the correct Lambda function
behind the intent in order to fulfill the intent.
So, for example, we said like
to book a hotel at the beginning.
And so Amazon Lex knows that the intent
is for us to book a hotel
because we have programmed this intent ahead of time.
And so therefore,
when we have the last bit of information we need,
a Lambda function is going to be invoked,
is going to perform a booking in the booking system,
and then when it's correctly done,
Amazon Lex will reply to the user,
"Thank you, your reservation went through successfully."
So the idea is that now we allow our users to interact
with our backend system, but only using texts and voice,
which is very nice.
In case your Lambda function needs a few parameters,
for example, to book a hotel, you need to know the city,
the check-in date, and so on,
then the bot is going to ask for Slots.
And Slots are input parameters.
And so the bot is smart enough automatically
to just converse with the user,
gather all the information it needs,
and when it has it, it will invoke the Lambda function,
which will perform the booking.
So it's a very, very powerful service.
And in the next lecture we'll have a look
at how we can quickly configure it and see how it works.

---

85. Amazon Lex - Hands On

Okay, so let's have a look at Amazon Lex,
just to get an understanding of how it works.
So you can create a bot.
And you can see that you have two methods.
You have the traditional, or the generative AI bots.
And here, this is where you're going to say
what you want the bot to do.
And then automatically it is going to be generated
thanks to gen AI.
The traditional way is to create a blank bot,
or to start with an example, or to start with transcripts.
Honestly, they're pretty similar.
Obviously, this one is a bit more advanced.
I need to have Amazon Bedrock set up
in order to use this feature.
But what I'm going to do right now
and to use Anthropic V2 model.
But what I'm going to do right now instead
is going to use the traditional method
and start with an example.
And we can start, for example,
with a BookTrip type of bot, which is going to allow us
to book a hotel trip automatically.
So this is a sample conversation.
So bot name is DemoBookTrip,
because we just wanna see the configurations.
So we're going to create a role
with basic Amazon Lex permissions.
"Is use of your bot subject to the Children's Act?" No.
And then we're going to click on Next.
So we're going to configure the bot
and we need to add languages.
So we'll just have English right now.
And for voice, we'll have Danielle talk to us.
So, perfect, let's click on Done.
And now our bot is being configured.
So here we are in the builder of Amazon Lex,
and we have what's called "intent."
So let's leave this.
And we have what's called three "intents."
So our bot has a lot of things
you can see on the left-hand side.
I'll try to keep it as easy as possible
because we don't wanna go too deep.
But three intents.
And the intent is what is the bot's intention,
what can the user want to perform?
So the user may want to book a hotel,
they may want to book a car,
but if they can't do any of these things,
we'll have a default intent when no other intent matches
maybe to indicate the user what the bot can and cannot do.
So, cool, with this bot we can do two things,
booking hotels or cars.
Let's click on BookHotel.
And we have a look at the conversation flow.
So this is a simple conversation one can have with the bot.
So here we have a simple utterance.
An "utterance" is a way to say, well,
if we say "book a hotel,"
then most likely the bot is going to say
that we want to book a hotel.
So this is an utterance.
And then there is acknowledgement intent.
And then we have questions.
So we know we want to book a hotel,
okay, but we need information.
So, "What city will you be staying in?"
And then we have the city.
And then, "What day do you want to check in?" The date.
And we can basically edit the bots to say,
"Okay, I don't understand you," or, "Okay, I got you."
And we can program how the bot reacts.
So you can have a look at all the information here.
We can add context.
We can say, okay, what type of sample utterances
could it be that will invoke this flow?
So book a hotel, or I want to make hotel reservations,
or book X number of nights in this location.
And you can see here the number of nights
and the location are slots,
they're parameters for our booking system.
So the slots right here,
as you can see, we have four of them.
They're like the inputs
so that the bot can actually book a hotel.
So we have the location, the check-in date,
number of nights, and room type.
And then when we're good, we say,
"Okay, we confirm the intent."
And here we can fulfill it.
So it's not active
because we don't have a Lambda function.
But if we had a Lambda function to actually book this,
then the bots will send all these slots,
all these parameters, to the Lambda function.
And then thanks to all these parameters,
the Lambda function can then do a booking.
So this is quite handy.
And you can see, the bot can be fully configured
from here, which is very handy.
You also have a visual builder, and it looks like this.
So what is the start, then the code hook.
Then, to find the slot values, such as the location,
let me zoom in a little bit so you see,
the location, the check-in date, the nights,
and what happens on success, on failure, and so on.
And the confirmation.
So you can visually see the start,
the end of your conversation, what gets invoked,
so what Lambda function gets invoked and so on.
And this could be another way of defining the same thing
we had on the left-hand side, but this time more visually.
So as you can see, the builder is very powerful.
You can have as many intents as you want, and then actions,
and then utterances, and so on.
And so, from an exam perspective,
Amazon Lex is going to be used to build chatbots
and conversational AI, and to configure them,
all of them, in a one-stop shop.

---

86. Amazon Personalize

Next, we have Amazon Personalize,
which is a fully machine learning service
to build apps with real-time personalized recommendations.
So what could be a recommendation?
For example, "a personalized product recommendation
or re-ranking or customized direct marketing."
For example, a user has bought a lot of gardening tools,
and you want to provide recommendations
on the next one to buy
based on a personalization service.
So this is the same technology used by Amazon.com.
So when you go and shop on Amazon.com
and after buying a few products,
what you will see is that Amazon.com
start recommending products in the same category
or in completely different categories
based on how you've been searching
and how you've been buying
and user interest and that kind of things.
So Personalize is how you access this from within AWS.
So you read your input data from Amazon S3.
For example, it could be user interactions,
these kind of things.
Also, you can use the Amazon Personalize API
to have real-time data integration
into the Amazon Personalize service.
And then this will expose a customized personalized API
for your websites and applications,
your mobile applications.
Also, you can send SMS or emails
for personalization as well.
So you have all these integrations.
It takes days, not months, to build this model.
So "you don't need to build,
train, and deploy ML solutions."
You can just use this bundled as is.
And so the use cases is going to be retail stores,
media, and entertainment.
So from an exam perspective,
anytime you see a machine learning service
to build recommendations and personalized recommendations,
think Amazon Personalize.
So let's dive a little bit deeper in Amazon Personalize.
So we have recipes in them.
And recipes are algorithms
that are already implemented in Personalize
that are prepared for specific use cases.
But you still need to provide
the training configuration on top of the recipe
to really match your use case.
So here are some example recipes
you may find in Personalize.
First one is to do recommendation of items for users.
So they're called the USER_PERSONALIZATION recipes,
and the name is User-Personalization-v2.
You can also give the ability to rank item for a user.
The name of the recipe is Personalized-Ranking-v2.
You can also recommend trending or popular items,
and we have the Trending-Now and the Popularity-Count.
So as you can see, all these things are recommendations.
They're personalized for a user.
You can also recommend similar items,
so it's the RELATED_ITEMS recipe for similar items.
You can recommend the next best action.
And you can also extract user segments
so to get Item-Affinity.
And so as you notice,
all these things are about recommending something
for your users
and usually based on the user's preferences.
And that's why it's called Personalize.
So remember this, "recipes and Amazon Personalize
are for recommendations."
They're not for forecasting,
they're not for anything else
but just personalized recommendations.
Okay, I've said it enough.

---

87. Amazon Textract

So now let's talk about Amazon Textracts.
And Amazon Textract is used to extract texts,
so, hence the name.
So you extract text, handwriting,
or data from any scanned document
and behind the scenes, of course,
uses AI or machine learning.
So we have, for example, a driver license,
and then we upload it into Amazon Textract,
and then, automatically, will be analyzed,
and the results will be given to you as a data file,
and so you'll be able to, for example,
extract the date of birth, document ID, and so on.
So you can extract any data, even from forms and tables,
and you can read PDFs, images, and so on.
So the use cases for extracting texts are multiple,
but you could be for financial services
to process invoices or financial reports,
could be for healthcare,
for medical records, and insurance claims,
or for the public sector, for example, for tax forms,
ID documents, and passports.

---

88. Amazon Textract - Hands On

Okay, so let's go ahead and learn
about Amazon Textracts.
So in the search bar, we just enter Textracts
and you have a button here to try Amazon Textracts.
So we have a few demos on the left-hand side.
We can analyze the document, an expense, an ID, and lending,
and you can also upload your own documents if you wanted to.
So I will just show you
a few features of Amazon Textract in here.
So here we have a paystub and it's a simple document
and it's been automatically analyzed.
So this is an image.
This looks like a scan.
So this is not a PDF that has actual text in it
It's a scan of an image and there's a paycheck in there.
So it's a complex document
and you can choose a different sample if you wanted to,
but we use the paystub right now.
And so what we see here is that Amazon Textract is able
to extract the raw text.
So all this text in this file, for example here, here, here
and so on, has been extracted.
and you can have a look at the data itself.
But we can go further than this.
Amazon extract is able
to also understand the layout of your page.
For example, what is a title?
So the title is Earning Statements.
It's a section header,
and here for example, we have a table.
So we see that out of the image it was able
to organize the information, which is very nice.
Then you have forms,
so what is the field and what is the value?
For example, if we look here,
period ending right here in the statement.
So let me just zoom in so you can see,
period ending has the value 7/18/ 2008.
And this is exactly detected here
so it's a bunch of key value pairs
that have been extracted from the form.
So this could be, for example, here,
this could be a pay date,
this could be a social security number.
It could be for example, the gross pay and the value itself.
So a lot of the key value pairs have been extracted
directly from the documents.
It's also able to extract tables.
So here we can view all the related tables.
Let's have a look for example at this one right here.
So we have earnings rate, hours, period and year-to-date,
and we have all the lines of this table
as well that have been detected,
so it's extremely powerful.
And you can also view this one, for example, the deductions,
again, we have an idea
of all the different line items within this table.
So this is extremely, extremely helpful.
And finally, you can also run queries.
For example, you can ask,
hey, what is the year to date gross pay
and get the value right here.
But you can enter any query you wanted to.
For example, what is the regular hourly rates?
Submit the query and then automatically Amazon Textract
is going to answer 10 and this is 10.
So this is super nice and very powerful
because from an image we're able
to extract all the information.
You on your own can have a look as well at expenses.
So this is a feature of Amazon Textract
where you look at the vendor and you look at the line item.
So what has been spent and what is the price of it,
extremely powerful as well.
And then you can also analyze IDs.
So you try to understand
and to extract data from, for example, a Massachusetts ID,
where you get the first name, the last name, the city,
the address, the document number, and so on.
Because these fields can be standardized
and extracted as well by Amazon Textract.
So I hope you have a better understanding now
of what this service is about.
It is very powerful
and something that can come up at the exam.

---

89. Amazon Kendra

Another machine learning service on AWS
is called Amazon Kendra.
So this one is a fully-managed document search service
that is powered by machine learning
and it allows you to extract answers from within a document.
That document could be text, PDF, HTML
PowerPoints, Microsoft Word, FAQs, et cetera, et cetera.
So you have a lot of data sources
where these documents may be
and you see some of them right now in the screen
and they're going to be indexed by Amazon Kendra
which is going to build internally
a knowledge index powered by machine learning.
And how does it help from an end-user perspective?
Well, we get natural language search capabilities
just like you go on Google.
So for example, if a user says,
Hey, where is the IT support desk into Amazon Kendra?
Kendra can reply, 1st floor.
And this could be due to the fact that Kendra knows
from all the resources that it took
that the IT support desk was on the 1st floor,
which is quite awesome.
And also, you can just do a normal search
and it will learn from the user interaction and feedback
to promote preferred search results
which is called incremental learning.
Finally, you can fine tune the search results, for example,
based on the important data, importance of data,
the freshness, or whatever custom filters you have, okay?
So from an exam perspective,
whenever you see a document search service,
think Amazon Kendra.

---

90. Amazon Mechanical Turk

So now let's talk about Amazon Mechanical Turk.
So this is the original Mechanical Turk
in the 1770 year.
This was created by an inventor,
and this was an actual robot that was playing chess
in front of people, but it was an illusion, of course,
because there were no robots in that time.
And that robot was cleverly operated by someone
inside that was playing chess.
And with some mapping, the robot was moving.
But thanks to an illusion,
no one could see that there was an operator inside.
So this is the thing that the service got named after.
And the idea is that Amazon Mechanical Turk
is a crowdsourcing marketplace
to perform simple human tasks.
So the idea is that you have access
to a distributed virtual workforce.
So you give tasks to it, and behind the scenes,
humans are going to do these tasks,
but these tasks can be very simple and very cheap.
For example, say you have a data set of 10 million images
and you want to label these images,
then you're going to create a task on Mechanical Turk
and actual humans, all around the world,
will go ahead and tag those images,
and you can set a reward per image.
For example, if you set 10 cents per image,
then tagging all these images will cost you
a million dollars.
But of course, it's up to you to set the pricing and so on.
But the idea is that you have access to a very,
very big workforce that is really eager to work
on these kind of tasks.
So the use cases for Amazon Mechanical Turk
is image classification, data collection,
business processing, anything that is going to be simple
and easily and can easily be distributed to many,
many people at a time.
So why do we want a Amazon Mechanical Turk
from an AI perspective?
Well, of course, to label your images,
to review recommendations, and so on,
it can be very, very helpful.
So there is deep integration between Amazon Mechanical Turk
and Amazon A2I, or a SageMaker Ground Truth and so on.
So here's an example of what a worker looks like
when they go on Amazon Mechanical Turk.
So here, as you can see, they see a lot
of different jobs that they can do.
The reward for each job that they have to do, for example,
filling an Excel spreadsheet and so on.
Then they can accept the work and work on it.
So, if you set the right reward,
and the job is fast enough, then you will get a lot
of people working on your job very quickly.
So that's it for Amazon Mechanical Turk.
It's a service that allows you to access many humans
at a time.

---

90. Amazon Mechanical Turk


So now let's talk about Amazon Mechanical Turk.
So this is the original Mechanical Turk
in the 1770 year.
This was created by an inventor,
and this was an actual robot that was playing chess
in front of people, but it was an illusion, of course,
because there were no robots in that time.
And that robot was cleverly operated by someone
inside that was playing chess.
And with some mapping, the robot was moving.
But thanks to an illusion,
no one could see that there was an operator inside.
So this is the thing that the service got named after.
And the idea is that Amazon Mechanical Turk
is a crowdsourcing marketplace
to perform simple human tasks.
So the idea is that you have access
to a distributed virtual workforce.
So you give tasks to it, and behind the scenes,
humans are going to do these tasks,
but these tasks can be very simple and very cheap.
For example, say you have a data set of 10 million images
and you want to label these images,
then you're going to create a task on Mechanical Turk
and actual humans, all around the world,
will go ahead and tag those images,
and you can set a reward per image.
For example, if you set 10 cents per image,
then tagging all these images will cost you
a million dollars.
But of course, it's up to you to set the pricing and so on.
But the idea is that you have access to a very,
very big workforce that is really eager to work
on these kind of tasks.
So the use cases for Amazon Mechanical Turk
is image classification, data collection,
business processing, anything that is going to be simple
and easily and can easily be distributed to many,
many people at a time.
So why do we want a Amazon Mechanical Turk
from an AI perspective?
Well, of course, to label your images,
to review recommendations, and so on,
it can be very, very helpful.
So there is deep integration between Amazon Mechanical Turk
and Amazon A2I, or a SageMaker Ground Truth and so on.
So here's an example of what a worker looks like
when they go on Amazon Mechanical Turk.
So here, as you can see, they see a lot
of different jobs that they can do.
The reward for each job that they have to do, for example,
filling an Excel spreadsheet and so on.
Then they can accept the work and work on it.
So, if you set the right reward,
and the job is fast enough, then you will get a lot
of people working on your job very quickly.
So that's it for Amazon Mechanical Turk.
It's a service that allows you to access many humans
at a time.

---

91. Amazon Augmented AI

So now let's talk about
Amazon Augmented AI or A2I.
So the idea is that your machine learning models
are making predictions in production,
but you want to have human oversight
to make sure that your models are working as they should.
So you have your input data,
and then you have an AWS AI service,
or you make your own custom machine learning model
that will make prediction,
and then something will happen with Amazon Augmented AI.
Either it's a very high confidence prediction
and therefore, they return immediately
to the client application
because your model can grade how confident they are
about the outputs,
or it's a low confidence prediction
and then it's sent to a human review.
In that case, actual humans
will consolidate all these predictions
and create risk-weighted scores,
these scores will be stored in Amazon History,
and then client application
will be able to get the prediction,
and these kind of things,
these kind of predictions that have been reviewed,
will then be fed back into your machine learning model
to improve its quality.
So who are the humans
that will review well these predictions?
It can be your own employees
or it could be over 500,000 contractors from AWS,
or it could be anyone working on the service,
AWS Mechanical Turk,
and some vendors
are going to be pre-screened as well for you,
for confidentiality requirements.
So you have access to a wide array of contractors
that can work for you with maximum confidentiality.
Finally, this model can be based on AWS.
It could be, for example, an A list service,
such as Recognition,
or you can build it yourself on SageMaker, for example,
or you can even host it elsewhere.
There will be an integration with Amazon A2I.

---

92. Amazon Augmented AI - Hands On

So let's have a look at Amazon Augmented AI.
So let's type augmented AI here.
We click on it and we are taken into the SageMaker console.
So this is part of Amazon SageMaker right now.
So here, we can get human review workflow
for very common machine learning use cases such as
content moderation or text extraction from documents.
So we can review predictions made from Amazon Rekognition
and Amazon Textract or your own models
if you wanted to with a custom task.
So let's create a human review workflow,
and I wanna show you the task types.
So we have different ones.
We have Textract to review key-value pair extraction
or Rekognition to do image moderation
or Custom to have your own custom workflow.
So here with image moderation, this is to review
any unsafe content such as
very explicit adult content or violent content.
So we want humans to review this
and make sure that the predictions
made by Amazon Rekognition are correct.
So here we need to say at the bottom,
what are the conditions to invoke a human review
on Amazon Rekognition through Amazon Augmented AI?
So here we're saying, hey, if the label has
a low confidence score, for example, zero to 50,
then send it to Amazon Augmented AI.
Or you can also randomly send a sample of all images
and their labels for humans to review.
For example, let's say 5% of our images are going to be sent
to Amazon Augmented AI for review no matter what.
So then you have a worker task template creation and design.
And so this is where you're going to explain
what you want the workers to do.
And here we say, please review the images
and all applicable categories.
And they will have to check if they see some nudity,
if they see some sexual activity,
if they see just like stuff that
could be considered offensive or violent.
So, I will not do the full description of
what goes on in here, but it's a lot to read.
And then the workers, so who will review this kind of work?
It could be Amazon Mechanical Turk workers.
You have over half a million independent contractors
that will be doing this work for you.
And you set a price for a task, for example,
1.20 cents or 2.40 cents or whatever you want,
all the way up to $1 per task.
So you set the price you want.
Or it could be a private team.
It's a team of your own employees that can do
this kind of review, or vendors where you go
and go through the AWS Marketplace
to find third-party vendors that will provide you
with humans specializing in these kind of services.
And that's it.
So you've seen how to use Amazon Augmented AI.

---

93. Amazon Comprehend Medical & Transcribe Medical

So now let's talk about
AI services for the medical space.
So we've seen Amazon Transcribe,
but there is a version of Amazon Transcribe
that is specifically geared for the medical space.
And this allows you to automatically convert
medical related speech into text.
And the reason why this is specialized
is because we have HIPAA compliance,
that means that you should be able to use it
in regulated environments.
So your audio is going to go
through Amazon Transcribe Medical,
and you're going to get text out of it,
but it specializes in medical terminologies,
such as the medicine names, the procedures,
the conditions, and diseases.
So you have the option to do real time with a microphone
or to upload files and get batch transcription.
And the use cases for Amazon Transcribe Medical
is to create a voice application
that will enable physicians to dictate medical notes
or to transcribe phone calls
that will report on drug safety and side effects.
So once from the audio you have text,
then you can do even more things.
So you can, for example, use Amazon Comprehend Medical,
again, a version of Amazon Comprehend
geared for the medical space,
and Comprehend Medical is going to detect
and return useful information from your text.
It's going to understand the physician's note,
the discharge summary, the test results, the case notes.
For this, it uses the natural language processing,
but this time, it's going to also be able
to detect protected health information, PHI,
to make sure that you're not sharing
information that you shouldn't.
The data can be from Amazon S3.
You have a real time feature to analyze this,
using Kinesis Data Firehose,
and then you can combine it with Amazon Transcribe
to get a flow from the audio
all the way to the comprehension of this audio.
So here's an example.
This is audio that has been transcribed
by Amazon Transcribe,
and we're going to pass this into Comprehend Medical.
And Comprehend Medical is actually able to understand
the full relationships of all the words.
So if you look, for example, on the top right,
we'd see it's a 40-year-old mother.
It can understand the age, it can understand the profession.
Then for the medicine, it's able to understand
the name, the dosage, the frequency, and so on.
And so from some text that has been very unstructured
because it's just text,
we're able to create a very structured pattern
thanks to Comprehend Medical.
So that's it, you just need to know
these services at a high level and what they do.

---

94. Amazon Comprehend Medical & Transcribe Medical - Hands On

So let's practice
just using the Comprehend Medical service very quickly,
just to show you the capability.
We're not gonna spend too much time on it.
But you click on launch realtime analysis
and it gives you an input text,
which is some doctor's notes.
So we have a patient to be an 87-year-old woman.
And because this is doctor's notes,
it could be very compressed.
So, "PT is 87 YO."
So you see it could be very complicated
to understand and to analyze.
And then for the meds, again,
we have PO, so we don't know what that means, PO QHS.
So these are like specific doctor related notes.
And then you click on analyze,
and Comprehend Medical
is going to comprehend exactly what is happening,
and to give you the entities.
For example, 87 is the age,
women is a gender
and profession is a high school teacher, and so on.
So there are a lot of concepts that are linked together,
for example, the symptom is overlapping with today.
So it knows the relations as well
of all these things together,
which would allow you to build your own application
down the road.
So we know that, for example,
this dosage is related to this brand name.
And PO is the root or the mode
that's again related to this brand name.
So this is very interesting,
definitely just doctor related stuff.
But all of this can be extracted
based on different levels of insights.
Honestly, I'm not gonna go through all of this
because this is way beyond the idea of this course.
But you understand that now,
using Comprehend Medical,
you can analyze medical texts.
And if you want to look at Transcribe Medical,
it's actually within the Transcribed UI.
So you click on it,
and then on the left hand side,
you have Amazon Transcribe Medical.
And this is real time transcription for medical discussions.
So I'm not a doctor,
I'm a teacher of AWS,
so I'm not going to be able to say many interesting things,
but for example, I would say,
"I have a cough and I think maybe it's COVID-19."
And actually it's a cough, not a cuff.
But anyways, I can't really speak English for as a doctor.
But anyway, here we go.
It's been transcribed for me.
And you get the idea behind Amazon Transcribe Medical.

---

95. AWS HealthScribe

So now let's talk about AWS HealthScribe.
So it's HIPAA-eligible service
that will automatically generate clinical notes
by analyzing patient clinical conversation.
So from the audio,
you're going to get rich transcripts.
You're going to identify speaker roles,
classify dialogues,
extract medical terms,
and generate clinical notes.
So you just send the audio into HealthScribe
and then it will provide its report to you.
So the use cases is to reduce documentation time,
to have AI generated transcript and clinical notes,
and to have efficient patient visit recap.
So to show you HealthScribe,
I just click on the region
and I choose Northern Virginia, us-east-1,
because this is where this is currently available.
And then I type HealthScribe.
So as you can see, it is right now
a Amazon Transcribe feature.
So I just click on it.
Maybe it'll have its own console someday,
but it's here on the bottom left
of Amazon Transcribe.
And so you can upload an audio,
you can customize a vocabulary,
you can filter out sentences
and then analyze results.
But there's a cool demo that you have
called Medical Insights.
So here you can select one of these audios.
So either diabetes or blood pressure.
So let's choose diabetes.
Then you can have a customization.
So if you want to have a custom vocabulary,
and we can look at the vocabulary itself.
So this is the kind of thing
that this phrases should be displayed as something else.
And then you can start analyzing.
And so this is going to analyze the transcript
and then give you the output.
So you can see here that the transcript is
between the clinician and the patient,
and you can see what everyone is saying over time.
And you can even play from the audio.
The part which is pretty cool.
And then you get the insight section.
So what is the chief complaint is tiredness.
Then you have more clinical stuff
that are most likely better understood
by doctors than myself.
But anyways, it gives you the assessment, the plan.
Okay, this is diabetes,
so you must do this for the patient, and so on.
So that's it.
You have a better understanding of
how AWS HealthScribe is working.

---

96. Amazon's Hardware for AI

So now let's talk about Amazon EC2.
So Amazon EC2 is actually one of the most popular offering
from AWS and it means Elastic Compute Cloud.
This is where you get your servers,
your infrastructure as a service.
So normally, in an AWS course,
we talk a lot about Amazon EC2
but from an AI perspective, Amazon EC2 is not as relevant
because we use a lot of managed services on AWS
to perform AI.
Still, I want to give you an overview of Amazon EC2
and an aspect of it that can come up in the exam.
So Amazon EC2 is basically renting virtual machines
or servers in the cloud
but you can also attach disk space to these servers
so you have what's called EBS drives
and you don't need to remember all the terminology here.
I just wanna give you the overview
and I will tell you at the end of the section
what is important.
But you can start, you can attach virtual drives,
their EBS drives,
you can distribute traffic to your Amazon EC2 instances
through what's called load balancers, ELB.
Then you can scale the service automatically
using auto-scaling groups, ASG,
and if you wanna go deep into Amazon EC2,
take any other AWS courses from me
and I promise you, you will see it at length.
So, but knowing how EC2 works is really fundamental
to understanding how the cloud works.
So once you have your virtual server
then you can configure the operating system.
You can have Linux, Windows or Mac OS.
You can define how much compute and cores you want, the CPU,
how much random access memory you want or RAM
and how much storage space.
So it could be network attached
or it could be hardware and so on.
So as you can see, you're pretty much,
if I want to simplify it as much as possible,
you're pretty much creating a virtual computer
on which you define what you want on it
and how powerful you want it to be.
You can also define how fast you want the network
to be on your server, if you want a public IP
and if you're exposing the server,
of course you can have firewall rules
that are called security groups.
Finally, to configure your virtual server at launch,
you can use something called the EC2 User Data.
So I know it's a lot of information I just dumped on you.
You don't need to remember any of it.
I just wanted to give you an overview.
It's basically a virtual server that you have in the cloud
that you can configure it on so many levels.
But now let's talk about AI
and how it's related to Amazon EC2.
So when you create an Amazon EC2 instance,
you have to select what's called an instance type
and there are some EC2 instances
that are going to be based on GPU.
So GPU is graphical processing unit.
And remember, they're the very good processors
that allow you to perform machine learning.
And so you have called like EC2 families, for example,
the P family or the G family that have very good GPUs
and of course they may be desirable from an AI perspective.
So if you take an EC2 instance of type P3,
P4, P5 or G3 and so on, just get untangled, G6
then of course you're going to have good GPUs
and they're great for machine learning
but AWS went one level further
and they created something called AWS Trainium
and they are machine learning chips that are used
to actually perform deep learning on big models.
We're talking about a hundred billion plus parameters.
So the Trn1 instance, so it's an EC2 instance of type Trn1,
for example will have 16 Trainium accelerators
and so when you start training models
directly on these visual servers,
you're going to get a 50% cost reduction
as advertised by AWS.
So you would use these servers to train the models
if you don't wanna use SageMaker for example
or you can also use these servers to serve the models.
And so for this, you would use AWS Inferentia
and this is a machine learning chip built again by AWS
and it's going to give you inference
at very high performance and low cost.
So we have Inf1 or Inf2 instances for EC2
and they're going to be powered by AWS Inferentia
and the idea is that if you use these chips,
you're going to get up to four times the throughput
you would get on a normal GPU based instance
and up to 70% cost reduction.
So something that can also appear in the exam
is that the Trainium and Inferentia instances
have the lowest environmental footprint.
That's because they are the most efficient.
So from an exam perspective,
remember that EC2 instances are virtual servers
and they can be of different types.
You have GPU based types
and you have also the ones based on AWS Trainium
and AWS Inferentia and that's it, you'll be good to go.

---

97. Amazon's Hardware for AI - Hands On


Okay, so let's have a look at Amazon EC2
to see the instance types that could be good
for machine learning purposes.
So here, we can launch an instance,
and this is how you would launch
a virtual server in the cloud.
So let's scroll down,
and what we're interested in too, is the instance type.
So we can actually get advice right here,
if I click on get advice, I'm going to get some advice,
and we say the kind of workload we had,
and then we're going to get advice on the instance type.
For example, we can say deep learning interference,
and then get advice,
and we get some recommendation around G5g, C7gn,
and we get some information into
why these things can or cannot be selected.
You can click here to have more details
around these families of instances,
and we get some information around
the number of VCPUs they have and so on.
But it doesn't really say anything about GPUs here,
which can be disappointing for now,
but right now nothing about the GPU.
But you will find for example,
on the documentation itself of AWS,
that there are some GPUs.
For example, here you see
there's NVIDIA T4G Tensor Core GPU,
but it's not put here in this table.
So you can close this,
but you can also look for your own instance type.
So for example, here I can type trn1,
and we know these instances are going to be great
for training your use cases.
So we can click on it, and as you can see,
we have some information around the pricing.
So these instances are very powerful
and they cost you $21 to use per hour.
So don't ever launch an instance with this right now.
This will cost you a lot of money.
For inference, we have inf2, or 1,
and for example, we have this one, inf2.48xlarge,
that's the instance name, costing you $14 per hour as well.
Very good for inference.
So this is all I wanted to show you.
This is where in this UI, we set up the settings
for selecting the instance type we want
to be able to perform machine learning,
either training or inference,
or more general use cases as we've seen before.

